
--Website Recipe Database Senior project
create database websiteRecipesDatabase;
create table recipes (
recipe_id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
recipe_title text NOT NULL,
recipe_country text,
recipe_description text,
recipe_source text,
recipe_link text,
recipe_ingredients text,
recipe_instructions text
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Fish tacos', 'Mexico', 'Fish Tacos Recipe with Best Fish Taco Sauce!', 'Natashas Kitchen', 
'https://natashaskitchen.com/fish-tacos-recipe/', 'Fish Taco Ingredients:
24 small white corn tortillas
1 1/2 lb tilapia
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
1 Tbsp Olive oil
1 Tbsp Butter
Fish Taco Toppings:
1/2 small purple cabbage
2 medium avocado sliced
2 roma tomatoes diced (optional)
1/2 diced red onion
1/2 bunch Cilantro longer stems removed
4 oz 1 cup Cotija cheese, grated
1 lime cut into 8 wedges to serve
Fish Taco Sauce Ingredients:
1/2 cup sour cream
1/3 cup Mayo
2 Tbsp lime juice from 1 medium lime
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp Sriracha sauce or to taste', 
'We used tilapia but you are welcome to use any white fish. Salmon or shrimp would be amazing as 
well! Cotija cheese is a Mexican cheese that crumbles when you grate it; similar to feta but much milder in 
flavor and not nearly as salty. It is inexpensive and found in the refrigerated cheese section of the grocery 
store. For the fish taco sauce, all you need is sour cream, mayo, lime juice, garlic powder and sriracha. The 
sriracha gives it a little kick of spice so you can add more or less based on your preference. This taco sauce 
is essentially a lime crema. 1. Line a large baking sheet with parchment or silicone liner. In a small dish, 
stir together seasonings: 1/2 tsp cumin, 1/2 tsp cayenne pepper, 1 tsp salt and 1/4 tsp black pepper and evenly 
sprinkle the seasoning mix over both sides of tilapia. 2. Lightly drizzle fish with olive oil and top each 
piece with a dot of butter. Baked at 375∞F for 20-25 min. If you want it to get a little browned around the 
edges, you can broil for 3-5 minutes at the end if desired. 3. Combine all the Taco sauce ingredients: 1/2 
cup sour cream, 1/3 cup Mayo, 2 Tbsp lime juice (from 1 medium lime), 1 tsp garlic powder, 1 tsp Sriracha 
sauce, or to taste  in a medium bowl or a large measuring cup and whisk together until well blended. Itís 
really fun and feels like dining out to serve the sauce in a squeeze bottle. 4. To serve the tacos, toast 
quickly toast the corn tortillas on a large dry skillet or griddle over medium/high heat. 5. To assemble: 
start with the fish then add remaining ingredients finishing off with a generous sprinkle of cotija cheese 
and finally that awesome taco sauce! Serve with a fresh lime wedge to squeeze extra lime juice over tacos.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('California burrito', 'Mexico', 'Oven baked CA burrito', 'Spice Trekkers', 
'https://spicetrekkers.com/recipes/california-burrito', '2 russet potatoes, diced large
º cup olive oil
1 Tbsp Cali-Mex blend, ground
1 tsp salt
250 g shredded cheese (cheddar, brick, Oaxaca cheese, anything melty)
Refried Beans
Carne Asada
Salsa Fresca
Guacamole or 2 sliced avocados (optional)
Sour cream (optional)
Large flour tortillas',
'1. Preheat oven to 400F∞ In a large bowl, toss the diced potatoes in the olive oil, then 
sprinkle with salt and spices. Spread on a baking sheet and roast until crispy, about 45 minutes. Check the 
potatoes occasionally to ensure they are cooking evenly. When crisp, remove from oven and set aside. 2. Lay a 
tortilla flat on a clean workspace like a cutting board or large plate. Spread a little grated cheese on the 
first third of the tortilla, leaving some of the margins clear (where you will fold it later). Then spread a 
line of refried beans by dropping a few spoonfuls along the cheese. Then add layers of meat, potatoes, salsa, 
avocado and sour cream (if used). 3. Fold the two side flaps of the burrito towards the center, but not all 
the way to the middle. Roll the side of the tortilla with filling away from you, making sure to envelop all 
the filling in the tortilla as you roll it up. 4. Repeat for each burrito. 5. You may want to put the burrito 
in the oven for a minute or two to melt the cheese if your fillings were not hot when you rolled the burrito 
(this often happens in the process of preparing all the fillings). Alternatively, you can quickly grill the 
burrito in a hot, dry pan or on a griddle for a minute on each side.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('California Burrito', 'Mexico', 'California burrito', 'Genius Kitchen', 
'https://www.geniuskitchen.com/recipe/california-burrito-536203', '1 1/2 lbs flank steaks (marinated in 
Cilantro Lime marinade, cooked, and chopped)
1 tablespoon sour cream (to taste)
2 tablespoons guacamole (homemade or pre-made)
8 French fries (should be large, soft fries√ not the hard, skinny kind)
8 ounces shredded cheddar cheese (to taste)
1 flour tortilla, per burrito
1 cup cilantro, lightly chopped
1 tablespoon lime juice
1/4 cup olive oil
3 garlic cloves
1 jalapeno, lightly chopped for un-spicy remove the seed
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper',
'Combine the Cilantro, Lime Juice, Olive oil, Garlic, Jalapeno, salt and pepper in a food 
processor for less than one minute or until the texture is nice and chunky. Be sure the garlic is fully 
processed. If you do not have a food processor you can make the marinade by dicing the cilantro, jalapenos and 
garlic very lightly and then mix the ingredients in a bowl with a fork. Marinate the steak in the cilantro 
lime marinade for 2-3 hours in the fridge (*do not marinate overnight as the lime has begun the cevice 
process!). Cook the steak. Lightly grease the grill grates of an outdoor grill. Heat the grill to medium-high 
heat. Remove the steak from the marinade and season it on both sides (lightly) with salt and pepper. Cook the 
steak on the grill, flipping once, until the steak has reached your desired doneness. Once the steak has 
finished cooking, remove it from the grill and allow it to rest for 5 minutes. Slice the steak across the 
grain into thin slices. Cook and salt the fries in the oven according to package directions, we want the big 
soft poofy fries, not the small hard little ones. Warm the tortilla and lay it out on a flat surface. Place 
your toppings from one edge of the tortilla about 2/3 of the way to the other edge. Steak, cheese, guac. 
sour cream and top with the french fries (or your prefference) Do not stack your pile more than 1-2 inches wide 
and an inch high. If you fill your burrito too full, you might not be able to seal it.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('California Carne Asada Burrito', 'Mexico', 'California Carne Asada Burrito', 'Carlsbad Cravings', 
'https://carlsbadcravings.com/california-carne-asada-burritos/', '8-10 burrito size tortillas
1 Recipe Best Carne Asada
2-3 cups Sharp cheddar/Pepper Jack combination or Mexican cheese blend, approx. 1/4 cup per burrito
1 Recipe Mexican Street Fries
1 Recipe Fire Roasted Restaurant Blender Salsa or store bought
1 pineapple peeled and sliced (optional)
Avocado Crema
2 large avocados
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup mayonnaise
2 tablespoons lime juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cumin
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder',
'Prepare French Fries according to directions. Set aside. Add Avocado Crema ingredients to your blender and process until smooth. Store in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Grease grill and preheat to medium. Grill pineapple for 6-8 minutes per side or until lightly charred and caramelized. Chop pineapple and discard each core. (If you have room on your grill, grill pineapple alongside carne asada)
Grill marinated/rubbed Carne Asada according to directions. Meanwhile, wrap tortillas in foil and place in a preheated 350F degree oven for 10 minute so they are warm and pliable (optional but recommended).
To assemble, layer carne asada in center of each burrito followed by, fries, cheese, avocado crema, salsa then pineapple. Fold in top and bottom and roll tightly in burrito style.
Optional: To brown burritos as pictured, lightly grease a skillet with olive oil and heat over medium high heat. Add burritos one at a time, rotating as each sides turns golden.
Garnish burritos with extra avocado crema, salsa and hot sauce to taste.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('California breakfast burrito', 'Mexico', 'California Breakfast Burrito with Creamy Salsa (and 
French Fries!)', 'Carlsbad Cravings', 'https://carlsbadcravings.com/california-breakfast-burrito-with-creamy-salsa-and-french-fries/',
'6-8  12" burrito size flour tortillas
sour cream
1-2 cups freshly grated sharp cheddar cheese
French Fries
2 medium russet potatoes
1 tablespoon olive oil
1/2 tsp EACH salt, garlic powder
1/4 tsp EACH ground cumin, pepper
Dash of cayenne pepper optional
1 tablespoon cornstarch
12-16 strips bacon (or less but it is so good with more!)
10 eggs
1/2 cup chopped onion
1 chopped red or green bell pepper
4 oz. can  mild green chiles optional
1/4 cup milk
1/2 tsp EACH EACH salt, chili powder
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon hot sauce optional
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1/4 cup chopped cilantro
2 Roma tomatoes chopped
Creamy Salsa
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup chunky salsa
2-3 teaspoons lime juice
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
Salt and pepper to taste
Hot sauce to taste optional',
'Preheat oven to 400 degrees and line a baking sheet with aluminum foil; spray with non-stick cooking spray. Cut the potatoes into thin fries and toss with French fry ingredients in a large bowl until evenly coated. Spread potatoes evenly over prepared foil and bake for 20-25 minutes, or until tender, then broil fries until golden and crispy.
Meanwhile, (working in 2 batches), lay bacon in a cool, large non-stick skillet. Heat over medium-low heat and cook, flipping occasionally until very crispy. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels. Chop into bite-sized pieces when cooled. Drain all but 1 tablespoon grease from pan.
Prepare salsa by mixing all of the salsa ingredients together. Store in the fridge.
In the same bowl you mixed your fries (there will be some fry spice left), whisk together eggs, onions, bell peppers, green chiles, milk, salt, chili powder, pepper, and hot sauce. Add eggs to the now empty bacon skillet and cook over medium-low heat. When eggs are almost set, stir in cheese, tomatoes, cilantro and bacon and finish cooking eggs, 30 seconds or so - donít overcook!
Assemble burritos by spreading some sour cream down the center of the tortilla then topping with eggs and French fries. For cheesier burritos (I HIGHLY recommend) top with desired amount of extra cheese. Roll tortillas up burrito style.
To sear the burritos for a golden crunch: Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a non-stick skillet over medium heat and place half of the burritos seam side down in the skillet. Cook until golden brown, approximately 1-2 minutes, and then flip and cook other side until golden brown. Repeat with remaining burritos.
Serve with creamy salsa OR salsa, sour cream, avocados/guacamole, pico de gallo and/or chopped tomatoes.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Baked Chicken Taquitos', 'Mexico', 'Easy Baked Chicken Taquitos', 'Two Peas and Their Pod', 
'https://www.twopeasandtheirpod.com/baked-chicken-taquitos/', 'For the Taquitos:
2 cups shredded chicken we use rotisserie chicken
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon ground chili powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon paprika
2 teaspoons fresh lime juice
1 cup shredded cheddar or Mexican blend cheese
20 corn tortillas
For the Toppings:
Shredded lettuce
Diced tomatoes
Guacamole
Sour Cream
Chopped Green Onion
Crumbled Queso Fresco
Pico de Gallo
Salsa',
'Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Spray a large baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray and set aside.
In a medium bowl, combine the shredded chicken with the cumin, chili powder, salt, garlic powder, paprika, and fresh lime juice. Stir until chicken is well coated with the seasonings. Stir in the shredded cheese.
Get two paper towels damp and place two tortillas at a time in between the paper towels. Place in the microwave for 20-30 seconds. Remove from the microwave and roll up the taquitos.
Place a heaping tablespoon of the chicken and cheese mixture in the center of the tortilla and roll it up tightly. Place the tacquito, seam side down on the prepared baking sheet. Continue rolling taquitos until the tortillas and filling are gone. You should have about 20 taquitos.
Spray the taquitos generously with nonstick cooking spray. Bake for 15-20 minutes or until taquitos are golden brown and crispy. Remove from the oven and serve warm with desired toppings.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Homemade Chorizo', 'Mexico', 'Homemade Mexican-Style Chorizo', 'The Spruce Eats', 
'https://www.thespruceeats.com/mexican-chorizo-recipes-2342791', 
'2 pounds pork (finely ground)
4 tablespoons chili powder (ground dried chile pepper)
2 tablespoons ground paprika
2 tablespoons dried oregano
1 pinch ground cinnamon
1 pinch ground cloves
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon salt
2 cloves fresh garlic (crushed)
1/2 cup vinegar',
'Gather the ingredients. In a large bowl, use your hands to mix the ingredients until they are well 
combined. Use immediately in your favorite recipe calling for Mexican chorizo, or refrigerate or freeze the 
sausage in an airtight container for later use.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Japanese Gyoza', 'Japan', 'Dumplings', 'RecipetinEats', 
'https://www.recipetineats.com/gyoza-japanese-dumplings-potstickers/', 
'FILLING
1 1/2 cups green cabbage, very finely chopped
1 tsp salt, separated
1 lb / 500g ground pork (mince) (fattier the better)
1 cup garlic chives, finely chopped (Note 1)
1 garlic cloves, crushed
1 tsp ginger, grated
1 tsp sesame oil
1 tbsp cornstarch / corn flour
2 tsp soy sauce
GYOZA
1 tsp cornflour (cornstarch) - for tray
40 - 45 round wonton (gyoza) wrappers (Gow Gee wrappers) - 1 1/2 packets (Note 2)
3 tbsp vegetable oil (or other cooking oil)
DIPPING SAUCE
Soy sauce
Rice wine vinegar
Chili oil (Rayu is Japanese chili oil)',
'Combine cabbage and 1/2 tsp salt in a small bowl, then set aside for 20 minutes to allow the cabbage to wilt slightly.
Place remaining Filling ingredients (including remaining 1/2 tsp salt) in a large bowl. Squeeze out any excess water from the cabbage and add to the bowl.
Use your hands to mix the Filling.
Sprinkle a baking tray with 1 tsp of cornstarch / cornflour.
Place 1 gyoza wrapper on your palm (left hand for right-handed people). Dip your finger in water and run it around the edge of half the gyoza wrapper (to seal).
Place 1 slightly heaped tbsp of Filling on the wrapper. Fold wrapper over and use your right hand assisted by your left hand thumb to create 4 pleats. Press to seal and place on the tray. Repeat with remaining wrappers. (See video for demo)
TO COOK
Heat 1 tbsp oil in a large skillet (that has a lid) over medium high heat.
Place about 12 gyoza in rows, slightly overlapping each other. Cook until the underside is light golden, then pour 1/3 cup of water around the gyoza and place the lid on.
Cook until the water has completely evaporated (so the golden underside is not wet and soggy) and the wrapper is slightly translucent on top - about 3 to 4 minutes. (See video)
Use an egg flip to transfer onto a plate upside down i.e. golden side up.
Serve with Dipping Sauce.
DIPPING SAUCE
Serve each ingredient separately so people can mix according to their taste. I use about equal portions of soy sauce and vinegar with a generous splash of chili oil.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Gyoza ??(????)', 'Japan', 'Gyoza', 'Just One Cookbook', 
'https://www.justonecookbook.com/gyoza/', 
'1 pkg gyoza wrappers (1 pkg = 52 sheets) (See Notes for homemade recipe)
1 Tbsp neutral flavor oil (vegetable, canola, etc) (for frying each batch of gyoza)
º cup water (for frying each batch of gyoza)
1 tsp sesame oil (for frying each batch of gyoza)
Filling:
æ lb ground pork (æ lb = 340 g)
2-3 leaves cabbage (2-3 leaves = 140 g or 5 oz)
2 green onion/scallion (2 green onion = 15 g or 0.5 oz)
2 shiitake mushrooms
1 clove garlic (minced)
1 inch ginger (1" = 2.5 cm) (fresh, grated)
Seasonings:
1 tsp sake
1 tsp sesame oil
1 tsp soy sauce
º tsp salt (kosher or sea salt; use half if using table salt)
Freshly ground black pepper
Dipping Sauce:
1 Tbsp rice vinegar
1 Tbsp soy sauce
? tsp la-yu (Japanese chili oil) (optional)',
'Gather all the ingredients. Tip: If you open the gyoza wrappers, make sure to cover them 
under a damp towel or plastic wrap so they do not dry out. (Optional) As cabbage leaves are thick and hard, 
we use different ways to make the cabbage leaves wilted. You can blanch or microwave them for a minute or two. 
You can also sprinkle salt to dehydrate the cabbage and squeeze the water out. Or you can skip the entire 
process all together. Remove the core of the cabbage leaves and cut into very small pieces (See Notes). Cut 
green onions and shiitake mushrooms into small pieces. Combine the ground meat, cabbage, green onion, and 
shiitake mushrooms in a large bowl. Add minced garlic and grated ginger to the bowl. Add the seasonings (1 
tsp sesame oil, 1 tsp soy sauce, º tsp kosher salt, 1 tsp sake, and freshly ground black pepper). Mix well 
and knead the mixture with hand until it becomes pale in color and sticky. Take a wrapper and place it in the 
palm of your non-dominant hand. Use a teaspoon to take a small amount of filling and put it in the center of 
the wrapper. Dip one finger in a bowl of water and draw a circle around the outer 1/4î of the wrapper with 
your wet finger until itís wet all around. Fold the wrapper in half over the filling and pinch it in the 
center with your fingers (but donít seal yet!). Using your thumb and index finger, start making a pleat about 
once every ºì on the top part of the wrapper from the center toward the right. As you fold each pleat, press 
the folded pleat tightly against the back part of wrapper using your other thumb and index finger. Make 3-4 
pleats. Continue with the left side of the gyoza. Start making a pleat from the center to the left. Heat the 
oil in a large non-stick frying pan over medium high heat. When the pan is hot, place the gyoza in a single 
layer, flat side down (in two rows or in a circular shape). Cook until the bottom of the gyoza turns golden 
brown, about 3 minutes. Add º cup of water to the pan. Immediately cover with a lid and steam the gyoza for 
about 3 minutes or until most of the water evaporates. Remove the lid to evaporate any remaining water. Add 1 
tsp sesame oil around the frying pan. Cook uncovered until the gyoza is nice and crisp on the bottom. Transfer 
to a plate and serve with dipping sauce. For the dipping sauce, combine the sauce ingredients in a small plate 
and mix all together. To save gyoza for later, put the gyoza on a baking sheet leaving some space between to 
keep them from sticking, and put it in freezer. Transfer frozen gyoza into a freezer bag and store in the 
freezer up to a month. When you use frozen gyoza, do not defrost. Cook while frozen and steam for extra 1-2 
minutes.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Traditional Japanese Rice', 'Japan', 'Rice', 'Recipe Tin Japan', 
'https://japan.recipetineats.com/how-to-cook-rice-the-japanese-way/', 
'1 cup short grain or sushi rice (Note 1)
1 cup + 2-3 tbsp water (Note 2)
Condiments
Furikake (Cod roe flavoured rice seasoning)
Umeboshi (Pickled plum)
Takuan (Pickled white radish)',
'Accurately measure and place the rice in a large bowl. Add enough water (not in ingredients) to cover the rice and wash gently, then discard the water. Repeat the process 4-5 times until the water is almost clear.
Leave the rinsed rice in the bowl and add enough water (not in the ingredients list) to cover the rice. Leave the rice to soak for 30 minutes (summer time) to 1 hour (winter time). (Note 3)
Using a sieve, drain the rice and remove as much water as possible.
Place the rice in a saucepan with a heavy bottom and add water (per the ingredients list). Cook over medium heat with a lid on.
When the water starts boiling and bubbles comes out of the pot, reduce the heat to low. Cook for 12-15 minutes until there is no water at the bottom of the pot or you donít hear a bubbling sound from inside the pot. Do not open the lid while cooking.
Turn the heat off and leave for at least 10 minutes with then lid on. Then mix the rice using a rice spatula (if you have one). This is to remove excess moisture within the cooked rice grains and also not to mould into the shape of the pot at the bottom.
Condiments/Topping for rice:
Furikake (????) is a dried Japanese seasoning which is sprinkled on top of cooked rice. Ingredients include a combination of dried fish flakes, dried egg, dried cod eggs, bonito flakes, sesame seeds, chopped seaweed and other flavourings.
Umeboshi (???) is a salty and sour pickled plum. There are brown umeboshi (natural colour) and red umeboshi (dyed using purple perilla). Large umeboshi are about 2-3 cm (æ-1º") diameter and have a very soft texture while tiny umeboshi are normally crunchy. The seed inside an umeboshi is very hard and you should not eat it as you might break your teeth.
Takuan (??) is one of the many pickled vegetables that Japanese people love. Unlike western style pickling, Japanese do not use oil to pickle vegetables and typically use any combination of salt, soy sauce and vinegar.
Because of the strong flavour of these condiments, Japanese people sometimes eat rice with just these when they are in a hurry or just to fill themselves up without going through the hassle of cooking a meal.'
);

--create view firstInsertOfRecipes as
--select * from recipes;

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Merrys Mulled Cider', 'Hobbiton', 'Mulled Cider', 'Middle Earth Recipes', 
'http://lotrscrapbook.bookloaf.net/other/recipes.html#13', '2 quarts of apple cider, 20 whole cloves, 
1/2 cup of sugar, 12 sticks of cinnamon, 14 whole allspice, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt', 'Mix together 2 
quarts of apple cider, 20 whole cloves, 1/2 cup of sugar, 12 sticks of cinnamon, 14 whole allspice, and 
1/2 teaspoon of salt. Bring to a boil. Simmer for 15 minutes. Keep warm. Strain and serve in a mug 
with a lemon slice.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Strawberry & Banana French Toast', 'Hobbiton', 'French toast', 'Middle Earth Recipes', 
'http://lotrscrapbook.bookloaf.net/other/recipes.html#28', '1 banana, sliced, 4 slices Texas toast, 
confectioner sugar, strawberries, sliced, 1 egg, Ω cup of milk, Ω teaspoon vanilla extract, butter', 
'My tweak to this recipe is to add cinnamon, vanilla and maple syrup to the eggs and soak the bread 
overnight before cooking. And always serve with meat ó sausage or bacon. Or preferably both. Sandwich 
sliced bananas & strawberries sprinkled with confectioner sugar. Whisk the egg, milk, vanilla 
and cinnamon. Dip sandwiches in egg mixture and cook in butter.  Okay, hobbits may not have such an 
exotic Southern fruit as bananas');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Elven Lembas Bread', 'Hobbiton', 'Bread', 'Middle Earth Recipes', 
'http://lotrscrapbook.bookloaf.net/other/recipes.html#lembas', '6 TBSP butter or margarine, slightly 
softened, 2 cups self-rising flour, 1 TBSP granulated sugar, Ω cup raisins (optional), 1 egg, well beaten, 
Ω cup milk, 4 TBSP heavy cream, Mallorn leaves', 'With a pastry blender of fork, cut margarine into the 
flour in a mixing bowl until the mixture resembles cornmeal. Do this rapidly so the butter does not melt. 
Add the sugar and if desired, Ω cup of raisins. In a small bowl, beat the egg and milk together until 
mixed. Reserve 1 TBSP of this mixture to brush the tops of the Lembas. Add the cream and egg mixture to 
the flour and mix just until combined into a stiff, soft dough. Knead three or four times on a lightly 
floured surface. Roll dough to a æ" thickness and cut with an oval or leaf shaped cookie cutter. Place on 
a lightly greased baking sheet, leaving 1" of space between Lembas. Brush the tops of the Lembas with the 
reserved egg-milk mixture. Bake for 12 -13 minutes in a preheated 400 degree oven.
For safe keeping, wrap each Lembas individually in a fresh, clean Mallorn leaf. If these leaves are 
unavailable in your area, store the Lembas in a tightly closed container. Makes about 1 Ω dozen Lembas.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Bilboís Tea Cake', 'Hobbiton', 'tea cake', 'Middle Earth Recipes', 
'http://lotrscrapbook.bookloaf.net/other/recipes.html#5', 'zest of one lemon (or orange if you prefer), 
3/4 c. butter, 1 c. sugar, 4 eggs, 2 1/4 c. flour (any soft flour will do), 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. 
salt, 1/2 c. dried cranberries or currents, juice of 1 lemon(orange)', 'Cream together butter, sugar and 
zest. Stir together dry ingredients in a separate bowl. Add the eggs to the butter mixture one at a time, 
beating well after each. Add dry ingredients and lemon(or orange...) juice and mix Just Until Combined. 
Spoon into greased loaf pan and bake at 350 degrees for 30-45 min. or until golden. Wrap and store 
overnight before serving to Gandalf for Afternoon Tea. -Note- To impress the Wizard (and the Dwarves...), 
glaze with a mixture of half a lemon(not orange) and 1/2 c. of icing sugar. Pour over the loaf before 
hiding in the refrigerator overnight. Perfect for unexpected parties.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Smaugís Gems', 'Hobbiton', 'No bake cookies', 'Middle Earth Recipes', 
'http://lotrscrapbook.bookloaf.net/other/recipes.html#23', '1 cup of vanilla wafer crumbs, 1 cup of 
confectioners sugar, 1 cup of chopped nuts, 1 tablespoon of cocoa, 2 tablespoons of light corn syrup, 
1/4 cup of whisky', 'Combine crumbs, sugar, nuts and cocoa. Add corn syrup and whisky. Mix well and shape 
into 1 in balls. Roll in confectioners sugar and place in an airtight container. Store in the refrigerator.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Vegan Bao Buns with Pulled Jackfruit', 'Street Food', 'Bao buns', 'Lazy Cat Kitchen', 
'https://www.lazycatkitchen.com/vegan-bao-buns-pulled-jackfruit/', 'BUNS (can be made 1 day ahead) 
300 g / 2Ω cups bao flour OR all purpose flour, 2 tsp instant active yeast, 1Ω tbsp / 20 ml vegetable oil, 
1 tsp fine sea salt, 2 tsp sugar (optional)
FILLING 560 g / 20 oz tin of green / young jackfruit, 2 small spring onions, sliced, 4 tsp grated ginger, 
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped, 3-4 tsp tamari / soy sauce, adjust to taste, 1 tbsp rice vinegar, 2 tbsp 
hoisin sauce (plus extra to serve), 2 tsp brown sugar or maple syrup, 2 tbsp vegetable oil, for frying (I 
used peanut oil), 1 heaped tsp Chinese five spice
OTHER CONDIMENTS sliced fresh chilli or chilli sauce, Ω English cucumber, cut into matchsticks, Ω daikon 
or 1 turnip, cut into matchsticks, red cabbage, shredded finely, roasted (unsalted) peanuts, crushed or 
chopped, spring onion, sliced finely, fresh coriander', ' METHOD
BUNS
In a mixing bowl, combine flour, instant yeast, sugar and salt. Add about 120 ml / Ω cup of warm (thatís 
important) water and 1Ω tbsp of oil. Once combined roughly with a wooden spoon, start combining the dough 
with your hands. It will need a bit more water but it is very important to add the water in gradually, 
tablespoon by tablespoon. In my experience it takes another 2-3 tablespoons of water to achieve a dough 
that is not too dry or not too sticky. Knead it for 10 minutes with your hands until elastic and smooth. 
Form the dough into a ball and rub a small amount of oil on the doughís surface to prevent drying. Place 
in a clean bowl covered with a kitchen towel and place it somewhere warm (but not too warm, sticking it 
too close to a fireplace is a bad idea, for example) for 1-2 hrs or until it doubles in size.
Cut two circles (if you have a two tier bamboo steamer) of baking paper to line the steamer with. Make a 
lot of small holes in the circles so that the steam can get through. You can use a paper puncher for this 
or fold each circle in half 3 times and cut small circles out along the folded edges with a pair of 
scissors. Prepare also eight 5 cm / 2? squares of baking paper and insert into the buns to prevent the 
two halves from sticking to each other (you could also use oil instead).
After the dough has doubled in size, tip it out onto a lightly floured surface and press the air our with 
your fingertips. Divide the dough into 8 equal pieces and form small balls. Place the balls on a lightly 
floured surface, cover with a kitchen towel and leave for another 30 min. Using a rolling pin, roll the 
balls out into Ω cm / ºî thick oval shapes. Fold each shape in half and insert a square of baking paper 
between the two halves. Alternatively you could also oil the buns before folding in half. Line your bamboo 
steamer with paper circles youíve made earlier and place folded up buns inside for another 30 min of 
proving. If your steamer is too small (like mine), place four buns inside (two on each tier) and rest 
the remaining four on a baking paper lined and lightly dusted tray until you are ready to steam. Half 
fill a pot (which the steamer can comfortably sit on, of course) with water and place the steamer with 
the buns on top. Whack the heat to medium-high (I used setting 4 out of 6) and let the water come to a 
simmer ñ donít be tempted to peak inside or you will ruin the buns. Once you can hear the water simmering 
vigorously, put the timer on to 10 mins. After the time is up, take the pot and steamer off the heat and 
rest the buns for another 5 minutes. This will spare the buns temperature shock   and will prevent them 
from shrinking. After 5 minutes, lift the lid off and remove the buns gently. Cook the remaining four like 
you did the first four.
FILLING
Open the can of jackfruit and drain it. Cut the firm, pointy ends off each triangular piece of jackfruit 
(you can still use them if you wish) and squash each piece of jackfruit gently so that it separates into 
individual strands and soaks up more of the cooking sauce. Set aside. Heat up 2 tbsp of oil in a medium 
size pan. Fry spring onions until softened. Add chopped garlic and ginger and fry gently until soft and 
fragrant. Mix in Chinese five spice and fry gently for one minute. Now add the remaining sauce 
ingredients: tamari / soy sauce, hoisin sauce, rice vinegar and sugar. Mix them around well, allow sugar 
to melt. Finally add in jackfruit and mix well to allow it to warm up and soak up the maximum amount of 
sauce. Fill each bun with pulled jackfruit, fresh veggies, herbs, chilli, crushed peanuts and some extra 
hoisin sauce.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Korean Style Popcorn Chicken', 'Street Food', 'Popcorn chicken', 'My Korean Kitchen', 
'https://mykoreankitchen.com/korean-style-popcorn-chicken/', '500 g chicken thigh fillets (18 ounces), 
rinsed under cold water, cut into bite sized pieces, or breast fillets, 150 g fresh Korean rice cake 
(5.3 ounces), cut in half (if youíre not using fresh rice cakes, separate and soak them in warm water for 
10 mins before cutting. Pat dry with some kitchen paper.), 1 Tbsp rice wine, 2 tsp ginger powder, 1/2 tsp 
fine sea salt, 1/4 tsp ground black pepper, 1 cup potato starch or corn starch, Some cooking oil , I used 
rice bran oil.
SAUCE (MIX THESE IN A BOWL) 5 Tbsp tomato sauce (ketchup), 1 1/2 Tbsp gochujang (Korean chilli paste), 2 
Tbsp honey, 2 Tbsp dark brown sugar, 1 Tbsp soy sauce, 2 tsp sesame oil, 1/2 tsp minced garlic.
OPTIONAL ñ TO GARNISH crushed nuts or seeds (e.g. walnut, peanut, pistachio, sunflower seeds and sesame 
seeds, etc.), finely chopped green onion ñ if you want the nice colour contrast', ' Place chicken pieces 
into a large mixing bowl. Add the rice wine, ginger powder, salt, and ground black pepper and mix them 
well. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and marinate the chicken for 30 mins in the fridge. Coat each 
chicken piece with the starch powder thoroughly. (Itís best doing this in 4 to 5 batches so that they are 
well covered with the starch powder.) - Pour some cooking oil into a deep saucepan/wok and heat until it 
reaches 175 C/ 347 F (or boiling).- Deep fry the rice cakes in batches until the outer layer turns crispy 
(under 30 seconds to avoid possible rice cake explosion). Take them out and set aside onto kitchen paper 
to absorb any excess oil. Repeat this with the remaining rice cakes. - Deep fry the battered chicken 
pieces in batches until golden and cooked through (2 to 3 mins). Take them out and set aside onto kitchen 
paper to absorb any excess oil. Repeat this with the remaining chicken. (Donít put too much chicken in 
one go as it can lower the oil temperature down.) To make the chicken extra crunchy, double fry them one 
more time. Set aside. Pour the sauce into a heated skillet. Bring it to boil on medium heat until the 
sauce thickens a little bit (1 to 2 mins). Stir constantly. Add the double fried chicken and coat with the 
sauce quickly and thoroughly. Garnish with your choice of toppings (e.g. crushed nuts, seeds and green 
onion). Serve.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('New Orleans Beignets', 'Street Food', 'Beignets', 'Taste of Home', 
'https://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/new-orleans-beignets/', '1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast, 1/4 
cup warm water (110∞ to 115∞), 1 cup evaporated milk, 1/2 cup canola oil, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 large egg, 
4-1/2 cups self-rising flour, Oil for deep-fat frying, Confectioners sugar', 'In a large bowl, dissolve 
yeast in warm water. Add milk, oil, sugar, egg and 2 cups flour. Beat until smooth. Stir in enough 
remaining flour to form a soft dough (dough will be sticky). Do not knead. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Punch dough down. Turn onto a floured surface; roll into a 16x12-in. rectangle. Cut into 2-in. squares.
In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat oil to 375∞. Fry squares, a few at a time, until golden 
brown on both sides. Drain on paper towels. Roll warm beignets in confectioners sugar.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Philly Cheesesteaks', 'Street Food', 'Philly Cheesesteaks', 'Taste of Home', 
'https://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/philly-cheesesteaks/', '1 beef top sirloin steak (1-1/2 pounds), 3 
tablespoons butter, divided, 4 medium onions, halved and sliced, 2 small green peppers, cut into thin 
strips, 2 small sweet red peppers, cut into thin strips, 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce, 4 submarine buns, 
split and toasted, 3/4 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, 8 slices cheddar cheese ', ' Freeze steak 1 
hour until firm but not frozen. In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons butter over medium heat. Add onions, 
peppers and pepper sauce; cook and stir 5 minutes or until tender; remove and keep warm. Place bun bottoms 
on a baking sheet, cut side up. Remove steak from freezer; cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. In same skillet, heat remaining butter over medium-high heat. Add beef in batches; cook and stir 
1-2 minutes or until meat is no longer pink. Remove from pan. Layer bun bottoms with meat, onion mixture 
and cheese. Broil 4 in. from heat for 2-3 minutes or until cheese is melted. Replace tops.');

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Pesto Pasta Salad', 'Italian', 'Pesto Pasta Salad', 'Cookie+Kate', 'https://cookieandkate.com/2016/pesto-pasta-salad-recipe/#tasty-recipes-24184'.
'1 pound whole grain pasta (fusilli, rotini, penne or farfalle)
1 pint cherry tomatoes, halved or quartered
3 handfuls baby arugula or spinach
Optional: Ω cup thinly sliced Kalamata olives
Optional: 1 can (15 ounces) chickpeas, rinsed and drained (or 1 Ω cups cooked chickpeas)
Optional: Crumbled feta cheese, little mozzarella balls or diced mozzarella or grated Parmesan
Freshly grated black pepper
Pesto
Ω cup pepitas (hulled pumpkin seeds)*
Ω cup packed fresh basil leaves
Ω cup packed fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves
º cup lemon juice (about 2 lemons)
1 clove garlic, roughly chopped
Ω teaspoon salt
? cup extra-virgin olive oil',
'Bring a large pot of salted water to boil for the pasta. Cook the pasta until al dente according to 
package directions. Before draining, reserve about Ω cup pasta cooking water, then drain and immediately 
rinse the pasta under cool water to prevent the noodles from sticking to one another. Transfer the pasta 
to a large serving bowl.
Meanwhile, to prepare the pesto: In a small skillet, toast the pepitas over medium heat, stirring often, 
until they are fragrant and making little popping noises, about 5 minutes. Pour half of the pepitas into 
a bowl for later (we will use them as garnish).
Pour the remaining pepitas into a food processor. Add the basil, parsley, lemon juice, garlic and salt. 
Process while slowly drizzling in the olive oil, stopping to scrape down the sides as necessary, until 
the pepitas have broken down to create a pretty smooth sauce.
To assemble the pasta salad, pour all of the pesto over the pasta and toss until the pasta is lightly 
and evenly coated, adding a tiny splash of reserved pasta cooking water if necessary to thin it out. 
Then add the cherry tomatoes, arugula, remaining toasted pepitas, and any optional add-ins (olives, 
chickpeas and/or cheese).
Toss again to combine, then season to taste with pepper. If the pasta needs a little more flavor, add 
salt or lemon juice to taste, or if the flavors are too bold, let it rest for a few minutes, and add a 
little splash of olive oil if necessary to tone down the rest.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Pepperoni Pizza', 'Italian', 'Pepperoni Pizza', 'myrecipes',
'https://www.myrecipes.com/recipe/pepperoni-pizza-4', '1 cup tomato-and-basil pasta sauce 1 (10-oz.) 
package prebaked whole wheat thin Italian pizza crust 1/4 cup turkey pepperoni slices (about 24) 1 1/2 
cups (6 oz.) part-skim mozzarella cheese',
'Step 1: Spoon tomato-and-basil pasta sauce evenly over crust, leaving a 1-inch border around edges. Top with 
half of pepperoni slices. Sprinkle with cheese. Top with remaining pepperoni.
Step 2: Bake pizza at 450∞ directly on oven rack 11 to 12 minutes or until crust is golden and cheese is 
melted. Cut into 6 slices. Serve immediately.
Step 3: Note: For testing purposes only, we used Boboli 100% Whole Wheat Thin Pizza Crust and Classico 
Tomato & Basil Pasta Sauce.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Tiramisu', 'Italian', 'Tiramisu', 'Food Network',
'https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchen/tiramisu-recipe-2131631', '6 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup whole milk
Four 8-ounce containers mascarpone cheese, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups espresso or strong coffee, at room temperature
1/2 cup brandy or cognac
30 to 32 crisp Italian ladyfingers (savoiardi)
1/4 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder
Bittersweet chocolate, for shaving',
'Line an 8-inch-square baking dish with plastic wrap, leaving a 3-inch overhang on all sides. Fill a 
large bowl with ice water.
Make the custard: Whisk the egg yolks and sugar in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely 
simmering water (do not let the bowl touch the water) until the sugar dissolves. Slowly whisk in the 
milk and cook, whisking constantly, until the custard is light and foamy, about 10 minutes (a 
thermometer inserted into the mixture should register 170 degrees F).
Remove the bowl from the saucepan and set in the bowl of ice water; whisk until the custard is cool, 
about 1 minute. Put the mascarpone in a large bowl. Fold the custard into the mascarpone with a rubber 
spatula until almost combined, then whisk until just smooth (do not overmix or the custard will be grainy).
Combine the espresso and brandy in a shallow bowl. One at a time, dip the ladyfingers in the espresso 
mixture until soaked but not soggy; arrange 2 rows of about 5 biscuits each in the baking dish. Spread 
one-third of the mascarpone custard over the ladyfingers. Repeat with a second layer of espresso-dipped 
ladyfingers, arranging them in the opposite direction. Top with another one-third of the custard. Repeat 
with the remaining ladyfingers, alternating directions. Spread the remaining custard on top and dust with
the cocoa powder. Cover with plastic wrap; refrigerate at least 4 hours, or overnight.
Invert a plate on top of the tiramisu, then flip the tiramisu with the plate. Remove the baking dish and 
plastic wrap. Invert a serving plate on top of the tiramisu and flip again so it is cocoa-side up. 
Remove the remaining plastic wrap. Shave curls of chocolate on top with a vegetable peeler.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Homemade Cannoli', 'Italian', 'Cannoli', 'Food Network',
'https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alexandra-guarnaschelli/homemade-cannoli-recipe-2042720',
'Shells: 2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 egg yolk
1/2 cup dry white wine
Filling: 2 cups ricotta cheese, preferably whole milk
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup small semisweet chocolate chips
1 lemon
1 quart canola oil, for frying
Flour, for rolling
1 egg, lightly beaten, for egg wash
Powdered sugar, for dusting',
'For the shell dough: In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, sugar and salt. Work the butter pieces 
into the flour with your fingers until the mixture becomes coarse and sandy. Add the egg yolk and the 
white wine and mix until it becomes a smooth dough. Spread a piece of plastic wrap on a flat surface and 
place the dough in the center. Wrap the plastic loosely around it and press the dough to fill the gap. 
Flattening the dough will mean less rolling later. Let it rest in the fridge for a few minutes while you 
make the filling.
For the filling: In a medium bowl, whisk the ricotta until smooth. Sift in the powdered sugar, cinnamon 
and allspice. Mix to blend. In a separate bowl (or in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the 
whisk attachment), beat the heavy cream until fairly stiff. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the 
cream into the ricotta mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips. Lightly zest the exterior of the lemon and 
stir it into the ricotta. Refrigerate for a half hour to an hour.
To roll and fry the shells: In a medium pot with a heavy bottom, heat the canola oil to 360 degrees F. 
Meanwhile, sift an even layer of flour on a flat surface. Flour a rolling pin. Roll the dough until it is 
very thin (about 1/8-inch thick). Cut the dough into fourths and work in small batches. Use any glass or 
small bowl that has a 3-to-4-inch diameter. Cut rounds, tracing around each one to assure the dough has 
been fully cut. You should have about 24 circles. Wrap each circle around a cannoli mold. Use a little 
of the egg wash on the edge of each round to seal it shut and to assure it will not slide or fall off the 
mold before pressing it closed over the mold. Flare the edges out slightly from the mold. Flaring will 
allow the oil to penetrate each cannoli shell as they fry. Use a pair of tongs to hold the edge of the 
mold as you submerge and fry the shell in the oil until crispy, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from the oil, and 
holding the mold in one had with your tongs, gently grip the shell in your other hand with a kitchen 
towel and carefully slide it off the mold. Set aside to cool. Repeat with all of the circles.
To fill the cannolis: Just before serving, use a pastry bag without a tip to pipe the ricotta into the 
cannoli molds. Fill the cannoli shells from both ends so the cream runs through the whole shell. Dust 
with powdered sugar. Powdered sugar gives that little extra sweetness and added texture to the exterior. It also makes me feel like I have a professional bakery touch in my own home. Serve immediately.
Cookís Note
If the ricotta has an excess of liquid, drain it over a strainer for at least a half an hour before making 
the filling. Make and fry the shells and the filling. Do not fill the shells with the cream until you are 
ready to eat them. Everyone loves a crispy cannoli.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Spaghetti and Meatballs Recipe (VIDEO)', 'Italian', 'Spaghetti and Meatballs', 'Natashas Kitchen',
'https://natashaskitchen.com/spaghetti-and-meatballs-recipe/', 'Ingredients for Meatballs (makes 22-23 
meatballs):
3 slices white bread (crusts removed), diced or torn to pieces
2/3 cup cold water
1 lb lean ground beef (7%-15% fat)
1 lb Sweet Ground Italian sausage casings removed
1/4 cup grated parmesan cheese plus more to serve
4 cloves garlic minced
1 tsp sea salt
1/2 tsp black pepper
1 large egg
3/4 cup all-purpose flour to dredge meatballs
3 Tbsp Light olive oil to saute or use vegetable oil
Ingredients for Sauce:
1 medium yellow onion (1 cup chopped)
4 cloves garlic minced
56 oz crushed tomatoes (from 2 - 28 oz cans)
2 bay leaves optional
Salt & pepper to taste
2 Tbsp basil finely minced*
Other Ingredients:
1 lb spaghetti',
'How to Make the Best Italian Meatballs: 
Combine bread pieces with 2/3 cup water and set aside 5 min then mash with a fork.
In a large mixing bowl add: 1 lb ground beef, 1 lb sausage, 1/4 cup parmesan, 4 minced garlic cloves, 
1 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp black pepper, 1 egg and mashed bread crumbs. Mix until well combined.
Form into 1 1/2" meatballs (about a flat ice cream scoop of meat). Dredge/roll meatballs in flour, 
dusting off excess. Heat a deep, large, heavy skillet or a Dutch oven over medium heat with about 3 Tbsp 
oil. Add meatballs in 2 batches without crowding the pan and saute until browned on all sides (about 6 
min total or 2 min per side). Remove meatballs and set aside (do not worry about cooking through at this 
point).
How to Make Easy Marinara Sauce:
In the same skillet over medium heat, add more oil if needed and saute 1 cup chopped onion stirring often 
until soft and golden (5 min). Add 4 cloves minced garlic and stir 1-2 min until fragrant.
Stir in 2 cans of crushed tomatoes and 2 bay leaves. Bring to a light boil (stir to make sure it is actually 
boiling and not just sending bubbles to the surface).
Add meatballs back into the pan with tomato sauce, partially cover with lid or cover with a splatter 
screen to reduce splatter and cook at a gentle simmer for 30 min, turning the meatballs occasionally. 
Meatballs will be tender and sauce will be thickened. Five minutes before sauce is done, stir in chopped 
fresh basil and season with salt and pepper to taste.
How to Make Spaghetti and Meatballs:
Cook pasta according to package instructions until aldente (or to desired doneness), drain and return to 
the empty pot.
Pour sauce and meatballs over spaghetti and toss gently to combine. To serve family-style, transfer to a 
large platter, garnish with parmesan cheese and fresh basil and serve hot.
Recipe Notes: 
*Basil is nice but optional if your crushed tomatoes jar has basil as 1 of the ingredients.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Ratatouille', 'French', 'Ratatouille', 'epicurious',
'https://www.epicurious.com/recipes/food/views/ratatouille-12164', '1 onion, sliced thin
2 garlic cloves, minced
5 tablespoons olive oil
a 3/4-pound eggplant, cut into 1/2-inch pieces (about 3 cups)
1 small zucchini, scrubbed, quartered lengthwise, and cut into thin slices
1 red bell pepper, chopped
3/4 pound small ripe tomatoes, chopped coarse (about 1 1/4 cups)
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano, crumbled
1/4 teaspoon dried thyme, crumbled
1/8 teaspoon ground coriander
1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup shredded fresh basil leaves',
'PREPARATION:
In a large skillet cook the onion and the garlic in 2 tablespoons of the oil over moderately low heat, 
stirring occasionally, until the onion is softened. Add the remaining 3 tablespoons oil and heat it over 
moderately high heat until it is hot but not smoking. Add the eggplant and cook the mixture, stirring 
occasionally, for 8 minutes, or until the eggplant is softened. Stir in the zucchini and the bell pepper 
and cook the mixture over the moderate heat, stirring occasionally, for 12 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes 
and cook the mixture, stirring occassionaly, for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. 
Stir in the oregano, the thyme, the coriander, the fennel seeds, the salt, and pepper to taste and cook 
the mixture, stirring, for 1 minute. Stir in the basil and combine the mixture well. The ratatouille may 
be made 1 day in advance, kept covered and chilled, and reheated before serving.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Holiday Brie en Croute', 'French', 'Brie', 'myrecipes',
'https://www.myrecipes.com/recipe/holiday-brie-en-croute', '1 egg 
1 tablespoon water 
All-purpose flour
1/2 of a 17.3-ounce package Pepperidge FarmÆ Puff Pastry Sheets (1 sheet), thawed 
1/2 cup apricot preserves or seedless raspberry jam 
1/3 cup dried cranberry 
1/4 cup toasted sliced almond 
1 (13- to 16-ounce) Brie cheese round 
1 package (13 ounces) Pepperidge FarmÆ Quartet Cracker Assortment',
'Step 1: Heat the oven to 400∞F. Beat the egg and water in a small bowl with a fork.
Step 2: Sprinkle the flour on the work surface.  Unfold the pastry sheet on the work surface. Roll the 
pastry sheet into a 14-inch square. Spread the preserves on the pastry to within 2 inches of the edge. 
Sprinkle with the cranberries and almonds. Place the cheese in the center of the pastry. Fold the pastry 
up over the cheese to cover. Trim the excess pastry and press to seal. Brush the seam with the egg 
mixture. Place seam-side down onto a baking sheet. Decorate with the pastry scraps, if desired. Brush 
with the egg mixture.
Step 3: Bake for 20 minutes or until the pastry is golden brown. Let stand for 45 minutes. Serve with 
the crackers.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('CROQUE MONSIEUR', 'French', ' Toasted Ham and Cheese Sandwich', 'Tastes Better From Scratch',
'https://tastesbetterfromscratch.com/croque-monsieur/', 'BÈchamel sauce:
º cup unsalted butter (Ω stick)
º cup all-purpose flour
1Ω cups whole milk
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon dijon mustard
dash of ground nutmeg
Sandwich:
8 thin slices white sandwich breads
5 ounces good quality ham about 8 slices
6 ounces Gruyere cheeses (or Emmental cheese), grated (about 2Ω cups)
1/4 cup freshly grated parmesan cheese',
'For the BÈchamel:
Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 
about 3 minutes. 
Gradually add milk, stirring well until the mixture is smooth. Cook, stirring, until sauce is thickened.
Season with a little bit of salt and pepper. Remove from heat and whisk in mustard and nutmeg.
Assembly: 
Preheat oven to 425∞ F. 
Spread bread slices with a layer of bÈchamel, spreading it all the way to the edges. 
Place 4 slices of bread, bÈchamel side up, on a parchment-lined baking sheet. 
Top each with a piece of ham, a handful of gruyere, and a sprinkle of parmesan cheese. Place remaining 
slices of bread on top, bÈchamel side up, then top with remaining gruyere and parmesan cheese.
Bake at 425 degrees F for about 5-6 minutes, until cheese is melted, and then turn the oven to broil and 
broil until the cheese on top is golden, 2-4 minutes.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Beef Bourguignon', 'French', 'Beef Bourguignon', 'Food Network',
'https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/ina-garten/beef-bourguignon-recipe-1942045', 
'1 tablespoon good olive oil
8 ounces dry cured center cut applewood smoked bacon, diced
2 1/2 pounds chuck beef cut into 1-inch cubes
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 pound carrots, sliced diagonally into 1-inch chunks
2 yellow onions, sliced
2 teaspoons chopped garlic (2 cloves)
1/2 cup Cognac
1 (750 ml.) bottle good dry red wine such as Cote du Rhone or Pinot Noir
1 can (2 cups) beef broth
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves (1/2 teaspoon dried)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter at room temperature, divided
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 pound frozen whole onions
1 pound fresh mushrooms stems discarded, caps thickly sliced
For serving:
Country bread or Sour Dough, toasted or grilled and rubbed with garlic clove
1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley, optional',
'Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F.
Heat the olive oil in a large Dutch oven. Add the bacon and cook over medium heat for 10 minutes, 
stirring occasionally, until the bacon is lightly browned. Remove the bacon with a slotted spoon to a 
large plate.
Dry the beef cubes with paper towels and then sprinkle them with salt and pepper. In batches in single 
layers, sear the beef in the hot oil for 3 to 5 minutes, turning to brown on all sides. Remove the seared 
cubes to the plate with the bacon and continue searing until all the beef is browned. Set aside.
Toss the carrots, and onions, 1 tablespoon of salt and 2 teaspoons of pepper in the fat in the pan and 
cook for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the onions are lightly browned. Add the garlic 
and cook for 1 more minute. Add the Cognac, stand back, and ignite with a match to burn off the alcohol. 
Put the meat and bacon back into the pot with the juices. Add the bottle of wine plus enough beef broth 
to almost cover the meat. Add the tomato paste and thyme. Bring to a simmer, cover the pot with a 
tight-fitting lid and place it in the oven for about 1 1/4 hours or until the meat and vegetables are 
very tender when pierced with a fork.
Combine 2 tablespoons of butter and the flour with a fork and stir into the stew. Add the frozen onions. 
Saute the mushrooms in 2 tablespoons of butter for 10 minutes until lightly browned and then add to the 
stew. Bring the stew to a boil on top of the stove, then lower the heat and simmer for 15 minutes. 
Season to taste.
To serve, toast the bread in the toaster or oven. Rub each slice on 1 side with a cut clove of garlic. 
For each serving, spoon the stew over a slice of bread and sprinkle with parsley.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Classic Entrecote ¿ La Bordelaise', 'French', 'Rib Steaks in Red Wine and Shallot Sauce', 'Ricardo',
'https://www.ricardocuisine.com/en/recipes/3568-classic-entrecote-a-la-bordelaise-rib-steaks-in-red-wine-and-shallot-sauce-',
'Sauce: 
2 to 3 beef marrow bones
2 French shallots, chopped
2 tablespoons (30 ml) butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) brown sugar
1 cup (250 ml) Bordeaux red wine
1 sprig fresh thyme
1 cup (250 ml) homemade or store-bought demi-glace
1 tablespoon (15 ml) cognac or brandy
Salt and pepper
Entrecote:
2 Rib steaks (Rib eye or sirloin) approximately 1 1/2-inch (4-cm) thick
1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) butter
2 tablespoons (30 ml) chopped parsley',
'PREPARATION
Sauce:
Remove the bone marrow. To do this, press the marrow with your thumb so as to push it out of the bone. 
If the marrow resist, heat the bones in a 180 ∞C (350 ∞F) preheated oven for 8 to 10 minutes and try 
again. If necessary, remove it with a small knife. Cut the marrow into 1-cm (1/2-inch) thick slices. Set aside.
In a small saucepan, soften the shallots in the butter. Add the sugar and cook for 1 minute. Deglaze with 
the wine and add the thyme. Bring to a boil and reduce by half, about 10 minutes. Add the demi-glace. 
Bring to a boil and simmer for about 10 minutes or until the sauce is syrupy. Add the brandy. Remove the 
thyme sprig. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
Entrecote:
In a skillet, brown the steaks in the oil and butter until the desired doneness. Season with salt and 
pepper. Set aside on a warm plate. Remove excess fat from the skillet.
In the same skillet over high heat, brown the marrow quickly on each side. Deglaze the pan with the sauce 
and heat gently until the marrow is cooked. Add the parsley. Adjust the seasoning.
Slice the meat and top with the sauce. Serve with fries or potato cubes pan-fried in duck fat.
NOTE:
In France, a distinction is made between Entrecote Bordelaise and Entrecote ‡ la Bordelaise. The first 
is a peppered steak sprinkled with chopped raw onion; the second is served with a red wine, shallots, 
and beef marrow sauce.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Manti', 'Turkish', 'Turkish Dumplings with Ground Meat, Onion and Spices', 'Ozlems Turkish Table',
'https://ozlemsturkishtable.com/2013/12/manti-the-tiny-treasuresturkish-dumplings-stuffed-with-ground-meat-in-garlic-yoghurt-and-spices/',
'Dough ingredients:
300gr/ 2 cups/ 10 Ω oz. all-purpose plain flour (plus a little extra for rolling)
1 egg, beaten
4 fl. oz. / º cup water
30ml/2 tbsp. olive oil
5ml/1 tsp sea salt
For the filling:
225gr/8oz ground beef or lean ground lamb
1 onion, grated or very finely chopped
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
For the garlic yoghurt:
500gr/2 º cups thick and creamy plain yoghurt
1 -2 garlic cloves, crushed and finely chopped
Salt to taste
For the sauce:
15ml/1 tbsp. Turkish hot pepper paste, biber salcasi (give link) or tomato paste
60ml/4 tbsp. olive oil
10 ml/2 tsp. dried spearmint, kuru nane
5 ml/1 tsp. (or more) ground sumac (optional)
5 ml/ 1 tsp. (or more) Turkish red pepper flakes, chili flakes, pul biber',
'Preheat the oven to 180 C / 350 F
First make the dough. Sift the flour and salt into a wide bowl and make a well in the middle. Pour in the 
beaten egg and the water and using your hands, draw the flour into the liquid and mix to a dough. Pour 
in the olive oil and knead the dough for about 5-8 minutes, until it is smooth and elastic. Manti dough 
needs to be quite hard; cover the dough with a cling film or kitchen towel and leave to rest in a cold 
place or in the fridge for 30 minutes.
While the dough is resting, make the filling. Grate or finely chop the onion and combine with the ground 
meat. Season with salt and ground black pepper and mix well.
In a separate bowl, beat the yoghurt with the garlic and season with salt to your taste.
Cut the dough into 3 pieces. Working one piece of dough at a time (and cover the rest of the dough pieces 
with a damp towel in the meantime so they donít dry out), roll the dough as thinly as you can into a 
sheet, on a lightly floured surface. Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into small squares (roughly 
2.5cm/1in). Spoon a little of the filling, rounded at a size of half a chickpea, into the middle of each 
square.
Pinch the opposite corners to form a little a little pouch and press the seams together to seal firmly.
Repeat with the rest of the dough and place the stuffed dumplings in a greased oven proof dish, stacking 
them next to one another. Bake uncovered for 10 minutes, until the manti, dumplings start to get light 
golden. Take them out of the oven and let the manti cool. You can freeze some of this baked manti in a 
sealed bag for up to 3 weeks.
Pour the hot water and pinch of salt to a large pan and bring to the boil. Place the baked dumplings 
gently to the boiling water and simmer for about 8- 10 minutes, until they are cooked. Once cooked, drain 
the water and return the manti to the pan. Drizzle a little oil over them so that they donít stick 
together.
While manti is cooking, prepare your sauce. Heat the oil in a wide pan and add the hot pepper paste, 
biber salcasi or the tomato paste. Stir in the red pepper flakes, dried mint and sumac, combine well and 
simmer for 1-2 minutes.
Arrange manti on a warm serving dish and spoon the garlic yogurt over them. Then drizzle spices infused 
olive oil and tomato/red pepper paste sauce over the garlic yoghurt. You can decorate with extra red 
pepper flakes, dried mint and sumac and serve immediately.'
);


insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Easy Korean Beef Bibimbap Recipe', 'Korean', 'Mixed Rice', 'The Woks of Life',
'https://thewoksoflife.com/2017/06/easy-beef-bibimbap-recipe/', 
'3 cups medium grain white rice
1 1/2 cups mung bean sprouts
1 bunch watercress or spinach
1 large carrot
2 cloves garlic
Salt
2 teaspoons sesame oil (divided)
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon soy sauce (dark soy sauce, if you have it)
4 eggs
Ω cup napa cabbage kimchi
2 tablespoons gochujang (Korean red pepper paste)
Toasted sesame seeds',
'Start by preparing your rice in a rice cooker and getting that going. If you donít have a rice cooker, 
follow our instructions for making rice without a rice cooker. Then put a medium pot of water on the 
stove, and bring to a boil.
While the rice is going and your water is heating up, prepare your vegetables. Wash the bean sprouts and 
watercress, and then julienne the carrot. While you have the chopping board out, mince the garlic.
By now, your water should be boiling. Blanch the bean sprouts for about 5 minutes, and remove with a 
slotted spoon to a colander to drain. Then add the watercress to the same pot of boiling water, and 
blanch for 1 minute. Set aside in another colander to drain.
Rinse both the bean sprouts and the greens under cold running water to stop the cooking process, and then 
thoroughly squeeze out any excess water from both sets of vegetables. Transfer the bean sprouts to a 
medium bowl. Roll the watercress into a cigar and slice 3 or 4 times to create shorter strands of 
vegetable. Set aside in a separate bowl. Season each bowl (the bean sprouts and the greens) with salt to 
taste and a teaspoon of sesame oil. Divide the minced garlic between the two bowls, and toss to combine. Set aside.
In a skillet over medium high heat, add a tablespoon of canola oil along with the julienned carrots. 
Stir-fry the carrots until tender but still a little crunchy, about 1 minute. Remove from the pan and set aside.
Turn up the heat to high. Add the ground beef to the pan, and brown, breaking up the beef into smaller 
pieces. Stir in the soy sauce. Meanwhile, in a separate skillet, cook the eggs sunny side up, leaving the yolks runny.
To serve, divide the cooked rice among four bowls, and top with the beef, seasoned watercress, seasoned 
bean sprouts, cooked carrots, kimchi, and egg. Serve with a good dollop of gochujang, and a sprinkling 
of toasted sesame seeds.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Korean Black Bean Noodles (Jajangmyeon)', 'Korean', 'Korean Black Bean Noodles (Jajangmyeon)',
'The Woks of Life', 'https://thewoksoflife.com/2017/05/korean-black-bean-noodles-jajangmyeon/',
'3 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided
Ω pound pork belly or any marbled piece of pork, cut into small cubes
1 cup daikon or Korean radish, cut into º-inch cubes
2 small onions, diced
1 zucchini, cut into º-inch cubes
2 small potatoes, peeled and cut into º-inch cubes
Ω cup of chunjang, Korean black bean paste
3Ω cups water
Fresh Korean noodles
Potato starch slurry (2 tablespoons of potato starch or cornstarch, combined with º cup water and 1 
teaspoon of sugar in a small bowl)
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 small seedless cucumber, cut into thin matchsticks for garnish
Yellow pickled radish and some additional cut raw onion, for serving',
'Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a wok or pan over high heat. Stir fry the pork belly until itís golden brown 
and crisped. The secret is high heat and minimal stirring! If there is a significant amount of pork fat 
pooling in the pan, you can drain that off.
Add the radish and stir-fry for 1 minute, followed by the onion, zucchini, and potato. Stir-fry for 
another few minutes, until the potato is translucent.
Clear a space in the center of the wok or pan, and the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil. Add the Korean 
black bean paste (chunjang) and let it fry in the center of the pan in the oil for one minute. Now stir everything together.
Add 2 cups of water, and let the sauce come to a boil. Turn the heat down and let it simmer with the lid 
on for 10 minutes. This is the perfect time to cook your Korean noodles (follow the instructions on the 
package). I didnít specify the quantity of noodles to use, because this recipe makes quite a lot of sauce,
that can be reheated and served with freshly cooked noodles whenever you want them. Just cook the amount 
that youíd like to eat for each sitting.
After 10 minutes, check to make sure that the potato is cooked through. Once itís fully cooked, add the 
potato starch slurry, and stir until thick and glossy. Finish off with the sesame oil.
Serve with the noodles, and garnish with the cucumber. On the side, serve with that signature pickled 
radish and chopped onion.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Kimchi Fries', 'Korean', 'Kimchi Fries', 'The Woks of Life',
'https://thewoksoflife.com/2015/01/kimchi-fries/',
'3 large russet potatoes
3 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons Korean chili powder or paprika (optional)
salt and pepper, to taste
2 slices bacon, chopped (optional)
? cup Kimchi, roughly chopped
1 small onion, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons sugar
4 oz. shredded cheddar cheese
1 scallion, chopped',
'Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Cut the potatoes into fries and place on a baking sheet. Toss with the 
olive oil, Korean chili powder (or paprika), and salt and pepper to taste. Bake for 45 minutes, tossing 
the fries a couple times during baking to make sure they brown evenly.
After the fries have been in the oven for 30 minutes, prep your toppings. In a pan over medium heat, 
cook the bacon until crisp. Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon, and set aside. Add the chopped 
kimchi to the bacon fat in the pan (if you want to make the dish vegetarian, just use a tablespoon of 
oil), along with the sliced onion and sugar. Stir-fry until caramelized, 10 minutes.
In a baking dish or directly on the baking sheet, sprinkle half the cheese over the fries. Spread the 
kimchi mixture over that, and then top with the last of the cheese. Broil for 1-2 minutes until melted 
and gooey. Hit it with the scallions and reserved bacon. Serve!'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Quick and Easy Kimchi Ramen', 'Korean', 'Quick and Easy Kimchi Ramen', 'The Woks of Life',
'https://thewoksoflife.com/2017/01/kimchi-ramen/',
'1 tablespoon vegetable oil
5 shiitake mushrooms, thinly sliced
Ω cup cabbage kimchi, chopped
º cup kimchi juice
2Ω cups chicken or vegetable stock
2 teaspoons Korean red pepper powder (gochugaru)
º teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 package instant noodles
1 scallion, julienned',
'In a medium pot, add the vegetable oil and the mushrooms. Stir-fry for 3 minutes. Add the kimchi and 
stir-fry for another 2 minutes.
Add the kimchi juice, stock, korean red pepper powder, sugar, and sesame oil. Bring to a boil and simmer 
for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, open up your package of instant noodles. Discard the flavor packet, and boil the noodles 
according to the package instructions. Transfer the cooked noodles to a bowl. Pour your broth over the 
noodles, and serve with scallions on top!
Note: If you prefer, you can also boil the noodles directly in the pot of broth!'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Salmon Bibimap Korean Rice Bowl', 'Korean', 'Korean Rice Bowl', 'The Woks of Life',
'https://thewoksoflife.com/2015/09/salmon-bibimbap/',
'2 cups raw white rice
light olive oil or canola oil
2 carrots, julienned
Salt and pepper
2 cups bean sprouts
2 bunches watercress
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon toasted sesame seeds
Ω teaspoon sesame oil
1 salmon steak or filet
4 eggs, cooked sunny side up (over easy is fine too)
1 cup kimchi
Roasted seaweed flakes or sheets, cut into slivers (optional)
Gochujang paste, to taste (about 1-2 tablespoons per serving)',
'First, cook 2 cups of dry rice using your preferred method.
Next, heat a pan with 1 tablespoon of oil over medium-high heat. Stir-fry the carrots for about 1 minute, 
sprinkling with a pinch of salt. Transfer to a bowl and set aside.
Next, stir fry the bean sprouts using the same method as with the carrots.
Next prep your watercress. Cut each bunch in half and wash thoroughly.
In the same pan you used for the carrots, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium high heat. Add the garlic 
and let fry gently for about 15-20 seconds. Add the watercress, followed by a Ω teaspoon of salt, and 
stir-fry until completely wilted. Remove from the heat and toss with the soy sauce, sesame seeds, and 
sesame oil. Set aside.
Now for the salmon. Sprinkle with salt and pepper on both sides. Heat a pan over medium high heat with 3 
tablespoons of oil. Add the salmon. Let brown for about 5 minutes. Flip, and let the other side cook for 
another 5 minutes. Our salmon steak was pretty thick, so cooking time may need to be adjusted depending 
on how big your piece of salmon is. When in doubt, just use a knife to gently cut into the center to 
check for doneness. Looks do not matter with this dish, as we will be flaking the salmon anyway.
While the salmon is cooking, set aside the kimchi and seaweed flakes, cutting up the seaweed with kitchen 
shears if you are using roasted sheets. Also, cook one egg for each person you are serving.
When the salmon is finished cooking, you are ready to assemble your bibimbap.
Spoon a nice bed of rice into a bowl and top with a small handful of flaked salmon and your egg. Add as 
much watercress, carrot, bean sprouts, kimchi, and seaweed as your heart desires. Finish off with 
gochujang to taste. Stir thoroughly and enjoy with a big spoon!'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Beef Bulgogi Bowls, a Korean Favorite', 'Korean', 'Beef Bulgogi Bowls', 'The Woks of Life',
'https://thewoksoflife.com/2016/01/bulgogi-bowls/',
'1Ω pounds any tender cut of beef, like tenderloin or top sirloin (we used a sirloin cut labeled "beef for bulgogi" from a Korean grocery store)
1 small Chinese pear or Ω of a Korean pear; if substituting a Western variety of pear, 1 small or medium-sized pear will do
Ω of a small onion
4 cloves garlic
1-inch piece of ginger
2Ω tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons brown sugar
a pinch of ground black pepper
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 scallions, chopped (divided)
Ω of a carrot, sliced thinly
6 tablespoons oil (any preferred oil with a high smoke point)
Steamed rice, to serve
Kimchi, to serve
2-3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
3-4 Shishito peppers, thinly sliced
Ssamjang paste, to taste
toasted sesame seeds (optional)',
'Slice the beef and transfer to a mixing bowl or deep plate. Next, prepare the marinade by adding the 
pear, onion, 4 cloves garlic, ginger, soy sauce, brown sugar, black pepper, and sesame oil to a food 
processor or blender. Blend until you have a smooth purÈe. Pour the marinade over the beef, topping the 
whole mixture with half of your chopped scallions and all of the sliced carrot. Stir thoroughly and let 
marinade for at least an hour, preferably overnight.
When the beef is done marinating, heat a cast iron skillet over high heat. The beef will cook in about 3 
batches; Use 2 tablespoons of oil per batch.
When the cast iron skillet is searing hot, lay pieces of beef in one layer to cover the pan. Let fry 
until crisped and caramelized, then flip and let fry again. The whole process takes 1-2 minutes per 
batch. Transfer to a plate. You will probably have to scrape the pan in between batches, as the marinade 
crusts up the pan. Be sure to reheat the pan between batches!
When all the bulgogi is cooked, assemble the bowls. Add a generous heap of rice to each bowl (this recipe 
serves 4-6 people). Top with the bulgogi, kimchi, garlic, Shishito peppers, and your reserved chopped 
scallions. Serve with additional kimchi on the side and ssamjang paste to taste (just shmear a little of 
this on the beef as you eat it). You can also sprinkle toasted sesame seeds over the top, if using. Enjoy 
this one guys!'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('German-Style Pretzels', 'German', 'Pretzels', 'Food & Wine',
'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/german-style-pretzels',
'3 3/4 cups bread flour (20 ounces), plus more for dusting 
1 1/2 cups warm water 
1 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened 
10 cups lukewarm water 
1/2 cup food-grade lye micro beads (see Note) Coarse salt or pretzel salt, for sprinkling (see Note)',
'Step 1    
In the bowl of a standing electric mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the 3 3/4 cups of bread 
flour with the warm water, yeast, kosher salt and butter and knead at medium speed until the flour is 
evenly moistened, 2 minutes. Increase the speed to high and knead until a smooth, elastic dough forms 
around the hook, 8 minutes.
Step 2    
Transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface. Cover loosely with a dry kitchen towel and let rest for 
5 minutes. Cut the dough into 8 equal pieces and form each one into a ball. Cover the dough balls with 
the towel and let rest for another 5 minutes.
Step 3    
On an unfloured surface, roll each ball of dough into an 18-inch-long rope, tapering them slightly at 
both ends. To shape each pretzel, form the rope into a U shape. Cross the ends over each other twice to 
form the twist, then bring the ends to the bottom of the U and press the tips onto it. Arrange the 
pretzels on 2 large baking sheets lined with parchment paper and let stand uncovered in a warm place for 
45 minutes, or until slightly risen. Refrigerate the pretzels uncovered for at least 2 hours or overnight.
Step 4    
Preheat the oven to 400∞. While wearing latex gloves, long sleeves and safety goggles, fill a large, deep 
ceramic, plastic or glass bowl with the lukewarm water. Carefully add the lye (always be sure to add lye 
to water, never the other way around) and, taking care not to splash, stir the solution occasionally until 
all the beads have fully dissolved, about 5 minutes. Using a slotted spatula, gently lower a pretzel into 
the solution for 15 seconds. Carefully turn the pretzel over and soak it for another 15 seconds. With the 
spatula, remove the pretzel from the lye solution and return it to the baking sheets.
Step 5    
Sprinkle the pretzels with coarse salt and bake on the top and middle racks of the oven until shiny-brown 
and risen, about 17 minutes; shift the pans halfway through baking. Let the pretzels cool slightly on the 
baking sheets before serving.
Make Ahead:
Pretzels baked without salt can be frozen for up to 1 month. Spray the frozen pretzels with water and 
sprinkle with salt before reheating in a 275∞ oven until warmed through, about 20 minutes.
Notes:
Food-grade lye can be ordered from essentialdepot.com. Coarse salt and pretzel salt can be found at 
specialty-food stores or online at americanspice.com.
Lye Alternative: To make a lye alternative, dissolve 1/2 cup baking soda in 2 quarts of boiling water. 
Boil the pretzels for 30 seconds, then drain on wire racks before salting and baking.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('German Soft Pretzel Sticks', 'German', 'Pretzels', 'Food & Wine',
'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/german-soft-pretzel-sticks',
'1/2 cup light brown sugar Water 
2 envelopes active dry yeast 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
5 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for kneading 
3/4 cup baking soda 
1 large egg beaten with 1 tablespoon of water 
Flaky salt, such as Maldon Yellow mustard, for serving',
'Step 1    
In a large bowl, stir the brown sugar into 2 cups of warm water until dissolved. Sprinkle the yeast over 
the water and let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. Stir in the vegetable oil and 3 cups of the flour. 
Knead in the remaining 2 3/4 cups of flour; the dough will be slightly sticky.
Step 2    
Transfer the dough to a floured work surface and knead until silky, about 3 minutes; if the dough is very 
sticky, knead in up to 1/4 cup more flour. Transfer the dough to an large, oiled bowl, cover with plastic 
wrap and let stand at room temperature until doubled in bulk, about 45 minutes.
Step 3    
Preheat the oven to 450∞. Line 3 large cookie sheets with parchment paper and butter the paper. Punch down 
the dough and turn it out onto a floured work surface. Knead the dough lightly, flatten it out and cut it 
into 24 pieces. Roll each piece into a 9-inch stick about 1/2 inch thick. Transfer the sticks to the 
prepared cookie sheets, leaving at least 2 inches between them. Let stand uncovered until puffed, about 
25 minutes.
Step 4    
In a large, deep skillet, stir the baking soda into 2 quarts of water and bring to a simmer over high heat.
Reduce the heat to moderate. Using 2 slotted spoons, carefully transfer 6 pretzel sticks at a time to the 
simmering water 30 seconds, turning once; add about 1 cup of hot water after before cooking the second 
batch of pretzels. Transfer the pretzel sticks to paper towels to drain, then return them to the cookie 
sheets, spacing them evenly.
Step 5    
Brush the pretzel sticks with the egg wash and sprinkle with salt. Bake until richly browned, about 10 
minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature, with mustard.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Fried Semolina Dumplings with Apricots and Apricot Preserves', 'German', 'Fried Semolina Dumplings', 
'Food & Wine', 'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/fried-semolina-dumplings-with-apricots-and-apricot-preserves',
'1 1/2 tablespoons margarine, plus more for greasing 
1 quart soy milk 
1/2 cup granulated sugar, plus more for sprinkling 
1 plump vanilla bean, split and seeds scraped 
Pinch of salt 
4 ounces dried apricots, finely chopped 
1 cup fine semolina (see Note) 
2 large egg whites 
Confectionersí sugar, for dusting 
Warmed apricot preserves and fresh raspberries and blackberries, for serving',
'Step 1:    
Grease a 9-by-13-inch baking dish with margarine. In a large saucepan, combine the soy milk with the 1/2 
cup of granulated sugar, the vanilla bean and seeds and salt and bring to a simmer. Stir in the dried 
apricots. Whisking constantly, add the semolina and whisk over moderate heat until thick, about 2 minutes.
Let the semolina stand until slightly cooled, about 10 minutes. Discard the vanilla bean.
Step 2:    
In a medium bowl, using a handheld electric mixer, beat the egg whites just until foamy. While beating 
the semolina mixture at medium speed, add the egg whites in a steady stream until thoroughly incorporated.
Scrape the semolina batter into the prepared baking dish and place a sheet of margarine-greased wax paper 
on top, pressing to even the surface. Refrigerate the semolina batter until it is set, at least 2 hours 
or overnight.
Step 3:    
Turn the semolina out onto a work surface and cut into 24 rectangles (you can also cut them into other 
shapes, like squares or circles). Melt 1/2 tablespoon of the margarine in a large nonstick skillet. Add 
8 of the semolina rectangles and sprinkle them with granulated sugar. Cook over moderate heat until golden 
on the bottom, about 2 minutes. Carefully flip the semolina rectangles and cook until the sugar is melted 
and golden brown, about 2 minutes longer. Transfer the semolina rectangles to a platter and keep warm. 
Wipe out the skillet. Repeat in 2 more batches with the remaining margarine, semolina and sugar, wiping 
out the skillet between batches.
Step 4:    
Dust the fried semolina with confectionersí sugar and serve with warmed apricot preserves and berries.
Make Ahead:
The recipe can be prepared through Step 2 up to 2 days in advance.
Notes:
Fine semolina flour, also called extra-fancy durum flour, is available at Italian markets and online at 
kingarthurflour.com.
Suggested Pairing:
Although most people would reach for a sweet wine to pair with these dessert dumplings, the tart apricots 
suggest a lively, off-dry Riesling would be better instead.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Candy Cookies', 'German', 'Candy Cookies', 'Food & Wine',
'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/candy-cookies',
'2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 
1/2 cup sugar 
1/8 teaspoon salt 
1 stick plus 6 tablespoons (7 ounces) unsalted butter, softened 
1 large egg yolk 
40 mini peanut butter cups and or 20 fun-size Mounds bars, cut in half 4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped 
4 ounces white chocolate, chopped 
Sprinkles, dragees or nonpareils, for garnish',
'Step 1:    
Preheat the oven to 350∞ and line 2 large baking sheets with silicone mats or parchment paper. In a small 
bowl, whisk the flour with the cocoa powder, sugar and salt.
Step 2:    
In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the paddle, beat the butter at medium speed until creamy. 
Beat in the egg yolk. Add the dry ingredients and beat at low speed until incorporated. Pat the dough into 
a disk, wrap in plastic and refrigerate until chilled, about 30 minutes.
Step 3:    
On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough a scant 1/4 inch thick. Using a 2 1/4-inch round cookie 
cutter, stamp out as many rounds as possible. Reroll the scraps and stamp out more rounds. You should 
have about 40 rounds. Set a peanut butter cup or halved mounds bar in the center of each round and roll 
the dough around the candy, pinching any tears. Roll the cookies into balls and arrange on the prepared 
baking sheets, 1 inch apart.
Step 4:    
Bake in the cookies on the upper and middle racks of the oven for about 16 minutes, until the dough is 
firm and just slightly browned; shift the pans from top to bottom and front to back halfway through 
baking. Let the cookies cool completely on the baking sheets.
Step 5:    
In a microwave-safe bowl, melt the bittersweet chocolate on high power in 30-second bursts until nearly 
melted. Remove from the microwave and stir until melted. Repeat with the white chocolate in another 
microwave-safe bowl. Dip the tops of the cookies in the melted chocolate and decorate with sprinkles, 
dragees and nonpareils. Transfer the cookies to a parchment paperólined baking sheet and refrigerate 
until the chocolate is set, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a platter and serve.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Lamb Schnitzel with Aioli', 'German', 'Lamb Schnitzel with Aioli', 'Food & Wine',
'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/lamb-schnitzel-with-aioli',
'1/4 cup mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar 
1 large garlic clove, minced 
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
Salt 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
2 cups panko (Japanese bread crumbs) 
2 large eggs 
2 tablespoons water 
Six 1/2-inch-thick boneless lamb leg steaks (1 1/2 pounds), pounded to a 1/4-inch thickness 
Freshly ground pepper 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter',
'Step 1:    
In a bowl, whisk the mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar and garlic. Gradually whisk in 1/2 cup of the oil. 
Season with salt.
Step 2:    
Spread the flour and panko in 2 separate shallow bowls. In a third bowl, beat the eggs and water. Season 
the lamb with salt and pepper, then dredge in the flour, tapping off any excess. Dip the floured cutlets 
in the egg and then coat with the panko.
Step 3:    
In each of 2 large skillets, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in 1 tablespoon of the remaining oil. Add 
the cutlets and cook over high heat until golden, 3 minutes. Turn the cutlets and cook for 2 minutes. 
Serve with the aioli.
Serve With:
Green Beans with Onions and Capers
Suggested Pairing:
A Pinot Noir from the New Zealand North Island with ripe cherry flavors.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Baked Spaetzle with Green Pea Pesto', 'German', 'Baked Spaetzle', 'Food & Wine',
'https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/baked-spaetzle-green-pea-pesto',
'GREEN PEA PESTO:
 1 cup packed fresh basil leaves 
 1/4 cup fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves 
 1/4 cup fresh mint leaves 
 4 cups ice
 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1 garlic clove
 1 (7-ounce) package sheepís milk feta cheese, crumbled
 1 cup frozen green peas
 1 teaspoon sea salt, plus more for seasoning
 6 ounces sugar snap peas, thinly sliced crosswise (about 1 3/4 cups) 
 Freshly ground black pepper
SPAETZLE:
 4 cups all-purpose flour (about 17 ounces)
 1/4 cup kosher salt, divided
 1/2 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper 
 1 1/2 cups whole milk
 6 large eggs, beaten
 1 tablespoon minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for greasing
 1 tablespoon olive oil
 2 medium leeks, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced crosswise (about 2 1/2 cups)
 MANCHEGO FONDUTA:
 1 quart heavy cream
 7 ounces 4-months-aged Manchego cheese, shredded (about 1 3/4 cups)
 1 large egg yolk
 1 teaspoon kosher salt 
 1 cup pea tendrils, for garnish',
 'Step 1:    
Make the pesto: Place basil, parsley, and mint leaves in a medium bowl; add 4 cups ice and enough cold 
water to submerge. Let stand 10 minutes.
Step 2:    
Combine extra-virgin olive oil and garlic in a food processor, and pulse until garlic is chopped. Reserve 
2 tablespoons ice water; drain herbs. With food processor running, add herbs through food chute; process 
until finely chopped, stopping to scrape down sides of bowl as necessary. Add feta, frozen peas, 1 
teaspoon sea salt, and reserved 2 tablespoons ice water; pulse until creamy. Scrape into a bowl. Fold in 
sugar snap peas, and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Step 3:    
Make the spaetzle: Whisk together flour, 2 tablespoons kosher salt, and pepper in a large bowl. Whisk 
together milk, eggs, and minced parsley in a separate medium bowl. Add wet ingredients to dry ingredients,
whisk until just smooth. Let stand 20 minutes. (The batter should be thicker than pancake batter.)
Step 4:    
Meanwhile, grease a 9- by 13-inch baking dish with butter. Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high,
and season with remaining 2 tablespoons kosher salt. 
Step 5:    
If using a spaetzle maker, place spaetzle maker over pot of boiling water. Working in batches, fill 
hopper with 1 cup batter, and then slowly move hopper back and forth over grate, scraping with a rubber 
spatula to create 1-inch-long spaetzle. If not using a spaetzle maker, set a colander with 1/4-inch holes
over pot of boiling water. Working in batches, spoon 1 cup batter into colander, and use a rubber spatula 
to press batter through holes, creating 1-inch spaetzle. 
Step 6:    
Stir spaetzle once or twice to separate. As soon as spaetzle rise to surface, use a slotted spoon to 
transfer to a clean colander. Rinse with cold water. Shake spaetzle dry. When all spaetzle are cooked, 
toss with olive oil, and place in prepared baking dish.
Step 7:    
Preheat oven to 350∞F. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a small saucepan over medium. Add leeks; stir to coat.
Cook, stirring occasionally, until leeks are soft, about 12 minutes. Add leeks to prepared baking dish 
with spaetzle, and fold to combine. 
Step 8:    
Make the fonduta: Pour cream into a large saucepan. Bring to a simmer over medium, and cook until reduced 
by one-third, about 10 minutes. Remove from 
heat, and whisk in Manchego, egg yolk, and 1 teaspoon kosher salt. Cover saucepan to keep warm.
Step 9:    
Bake spaetzle and leeks in preheated oven until spaetzle are crisp and browned, 15 to 20 minutes. Pour 
fonduta over spaetzle mixture. Dollop 1/2 cup pesto over fonduta. (Reserve remaining pesto for another 
use.) Garnish with pea tendrils and serve immediately.
Make Ahead:
The pesto can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator up to 3 days. The spaetzle may be 
cooked 1 day ahead and stored in the refrigerator.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek Salad (Horiatiki)', 'Greek', 'Greek Salad', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Greek-Salad-Horiatiki',
'2 tbsp. roughly chopped fresh parsley, plus more for garnish
2 medium vine-ripened tomatoes, cut into 1 1/2" pieces
1 small cucumber, peeled, halved lengthwise, and sliced crosswise into 1/4" pieces
1/2 medium white onion, thinly sliced
3 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 tbsp. red wine vinegar
1/8 tsp. dried oregano, plus more
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
6 oz. feta, cut into thick slabs
8 kalamata olives',
'Combine parsley, tomatoes, cucumbers, and onions in a bowl. In a small bowl, whisk together oil, vinegar,
and oregano; season with salt and pepper and pour over cucumber mixture. Toss. Transfer salad to a 
serving bowl and top with feta and olives. Garnish with more oregano; season with pepper.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek Pasta Salad', 'Greek', 'Greek Salad', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Greek-Pasta-Salad',
'10 oz. rotini, cooked and chilled (3 cups)
2 medium tomatos, cored, seeded and cut into 1/2 inch dice (1 cup)
1 small cucumber, cut into 1/2 inch dice (1 cup)
1 small onion, finely chopped (3/4 cup)
1 cup feta cheese, crumbled (8 oz.)
3 tbsp. chopped fresh oregano
3 tbsp. chopped fresh parsley
3 tbsp. red wine vinegar
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper',
'Toss all ingredients in a large bowl, season with salt and pepper and serve chilled.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek Honey-Dipped Walnut Spice Cookies (Melomakarona)', 'Greek', 'Greek Cookies', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/recipes/greek-honey-dipped-cookies-melomakarona',
'For the Honey Syrup and Walnut Garnish
1 cup honey
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup finely chopped walnuts
1/2 tsp. ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp. ground cloves
For the Cookies
4 cups flour
1 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. baking soda
3/4 cup canola oil
1/2 cup sugar
6 tbsp. fresh orange juice, plus 2 tsp. zest
1/4 cup shortening
2 tbsp. brandy',
'Make the syrup: Combine honey, sugar, and 1 cup water in a medium saucepan over high heat; boil. Remove 
from heat and cool.
Make the garnish: In a medium bowl, combine walnuts, cinnamon, and cloves. Set aside.
Make the cookies: Heat oven to 350∞. Combine flour, baking powder, and baking soda in a medium bowl; set 
aside. Combine oil, shortening, sugar, orange juice and zest, and brandy in the bowl of a food processor 
and mix until smooth. Slowly add dry ingredients until a smooth dough forms, taking care not to over work 
dough. Transfer dough to a work surface and roll out the dough into a 1/3"-thick sheet. Using a 3" round 
cutter, cut dough into 40 cookies. Transfer cookies to a parchment paper lined baking sheet. Using the 
prongs of a fork, press down on the balls to flatten and make grooves on the top of the cookie. Bake for 
30 minutes, or until golden brown. Pour the syrup over the cookies as soon as they come out of the oven. 
Turn the cookies over and let cool.
Garnish the cookies: Dip each cookie into the walnut mixture to coat completely.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek Fried Cheese', 'Greek', 'Greek Fried Cheese', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Greek-Fried-Cheese',
'Olive oil, for frying
10 oz. hallo˙mi, kefalotyri, or Pecorino Romano cheese, cut into 3/4" cubes
2 tbsp. brine-packed capers, soaked for 5 minutes and drained
2 tbsp. fresh lemon juice
2 tsp. roughly chopped fresh oregano',
'Pour oil into a 12" cast-iron skillet to a depth of 1/8"; heat over medium-high heat until very hot but 
not smoking. Add cheese and cook, turning, until all sides are golden brown. Using a slotted spoon, 
transfer cheese to paper towels.
Put cheese into a bowl and toss with capers, lemon juice, and oregano. Serve in small bowls.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek Grilled Eggplant Spread (Melitzanosalata)', 'Greek', 'Greek Eggplant Spread', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/melitzanosalata-greek-eggplant-spread-recipe',
'3 large purple eggplants
1 clove garlic, minced (1 Ω tsp.)
1/2 red onion, diced (1/2 cup)
3 tbsp. olive oil
1/4 cup lemon juice
3 tbsp. red wine vinegar
Salt, to taste
Parsley, for garnish',
'Preheat the oven to 400∞.
Using a fork, pierce the eggplants all over and place them on a clean baking sheet. Transfer to the oven 
and bake until completely soft and the skins have browned, about 45 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, add the garlic, onion, olive oil, lemon juice, and vinegar. Stir to combine.
Transfer the eggplants to a clean cutting board. Using a spoon, scoop out the flesh and discard the skin.
Chop the eggplants and transfer to the bowl with the olive oil mixture. Stir to combine. Season with salt,
and serve garnished with chopped parsley.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Cretan Cheese Pies with Thyme and Honey (Kalitsounia)', 'Greek', 'Cretan Cheese Pies', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/cretan-cheese-pies-thyme-honey-recipe',
'For the phyllo:
3 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 tbsp. white vinegar
3 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for rolling
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
*Note: It is common pratice to purchase ready-made phyllo and the quality is normally higher.
For the filling and topping:
12 oz. Cretan mizithra cheese, or substitute ricotta salata
5 oz. Cretan tiromalama cheese, or substitute feta
1 tsp. finely chopped mint
1 large egg
1 tbsp. black sesame seeds
1 tbsp. white sesame seeds
Thyme honey, for serving',
'Make the dough: In a small bowl, combine 1 cup cold water, the olive oil, and vinegar. Set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, add the flour and salt. With the mixer on low 
speed, drizzle the wet ingredients into the flour a few tablespoons at a time, mixing until the dough is
tight and smooth, 3ñ4 minutes. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap; let rest 1 hour.
Meanwhile, make the filling: In the bowl of a food processor, blend the cheeses until smooth. Add the 
mint and pulse until combined. Set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350∞. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper and set them aside. In a small
bowl, beat the egg with 1 teaspoon water and set aside.
Lightly dust a work surface with flour. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough to a 16x20-inch rectangle. 
Use a pizza wheel or a sharp knife to cut the dough into twenty 4-inch squares. Add 1 heaping tablespoon
of filling to the center of each, then bring all four corners of the squares up to meet at the center, 
pinching along all of the edges to seal. Leave or prick a tiny hole in the centermost part of the seam 
to prevent the pies from puffing while baking.
Place the pies on the prepared baking sheets, spacing them evenly. Brush the tops and sides with the egg
wash, then sprinkle with the black and white sesame seeds.
Bake until golden brown, 22ñ25 minutes. Serve warm, drizzled with thyme honey.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Gulab Jamun (Cardamom Syrup-soaked Donuts)', 'Indian', 'Donuts', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/cardamom-syrup-donuts',
'8 cups whole milk
2 1/2 cups sugar
1/8 tsp. saffron
1 tsp. rosewater
8 pods cardamom, cracked
1/4 cup (1 1/4 oz.) all-purpose flour, sifted
1/4 cup semolina flour
1/2 tsp. baking powder
3 tbsp. ghee or clarified butter, plus more for frying
1 tbsp. plain yogurt
1 egg',
'Bring milk to a boil in a 4-qt. nonstick pan. Reduce heat to medium-low; cook, stirring, until very 
thick, about 5 hours. You should have 1Ω cups of thickened milk; let cool to room temperature.
Bring sugar, saffron, rosewater, cardamom, and 1æ cups water to a boil in a 1-qt. saucepan. Cook, 
stirring, until sugar dissolves, 8ñ10 minutes; let cool.
Combine thickened milk, the flours, and baking powder in bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle 
attachment; mix. Add ghee, yogurt, and egg; continue to beat until dough forms. Cover with plastic wrap 
and set aside for 10 minutes.
Heat 2" ghee in a 6-qt. pan until a deep-fry thermometer reads 275∞. Using wet hands, divide dough into 
16 pieces; roll into balls. Working in batches, fry, stirring to keep donuts submerged until cooked 
through, 12ñ15 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels to drain briefly; transfer hot 
donuts to syrup and let soak for at least 30 minutes before serving.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Maacher Jhol (Bengali-style Fish Stew)', 'Indian', 'Fish Stew', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/recipes/maacher-jhol-bengali-style-fish-stew',
'1 lb. boneless, skin-on catfish, trout, or salmon, cut into 2" pieces
1/4 tsp. ground turmeric
Kosher salt, to taste
1 1/2 tbsp. black mustard seeds
1 tbsp. cumin seeds
1/3 cup mustard oil
2 tsp. panch phoran (Bengali five-spice powder)
2 small green Thai chiles or 1 serrano, halved
1 small red onion, minced
3 cloves garlic, mashed into a paste
1 (2") piece ginger, peeled and mashed into a paste
2 plum tomatoes, chopped
1/3 cup packed cilantro leaves',
'Rub fish with turmeric and salt in a bowl. Heat a 6-qt. saucepan over medium-high; cook mustard and 
cumin seeds until they pop, 1ñ2 minutes. Grind in a spice grinder into a powder. Add oil to pan; heat 
over medium-high. Cook fish, flipping once, until skin is crisp, 4ñ5 minutes; transfer to a plate. Add 
five-spice powder and chiles; cook 1ñ2 minutes. Add onion; cook until slightly caramelized, 8ñ10 minutes.
Add reserved spices, the garlic, ginger, and 1 1/2 cups water; boil. Add tomatoes; cook until thickened,
8ñ10 minutes. Stir in fish and the cilantro.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Spiced Tea, Malsala Chai', 'Indian', 'Chai Tea', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Spiced-Tea-Masala-Chai',
'1/2 cup evaporated milk
5 tsp. sugar
6 black tea bags
5 pods green cardamom, crushed',
'Bring milk, sugar, tea, cardamom, and 4 cups water to a boil in a 2-qt. saucepan. Remove from heat; let 
steep for 5 minutes. Strain and serve hot.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Goan Coconut Cake (Baath)', 'Indian', 'Cake', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/coconut-semolina-cake-recipe',
'4 cups semolina
1 tsp. baking powder
1/4 tsp. fine sea salt
2 1/2 cups superfine sugar
1/4 cup coconut oil
8 tbsp. unsalted butter, softened, plus more for greasing
4 eggs
1 (13 1/2-oz.) can coconut milk
1/4 cup cream of coconut
1 1/2 tsp. rosewater
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut',
'Line a 8-by-8ñinch square cake pan with parchment paper; grease with butter, then set aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl; in a large bowl, beat sugar, coconut oil, and butter on 
medium speed of a hand mixer until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating after each 
addition until smooth. Add half the coconut milk and cream of coconut, then half the dry ingredients, and
beat until just combined; add in remaining coconut milk and cream of coconut, plus the rosewater, mixing
well to combine. Add remaining dry ingredients and mix well; fold in shredded coconut, then pour batter 
evenly into prepared pan. Cover with plastic wrap, then refrigerate overnight.
The next day, heat oven to 350∞. Unwrap cake, then bake, turning halfway through, until golden brown, 
about 90 minutes. Cool cake completely before cutting and serving.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Chicken and Shrimp Curry', 'Indian', 'Chicken and Shrimp Curry', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/indian-chicken-shrimp-curry-recipe',
'5 medium cloves garlic, coarsely chopped
One 2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and coarsely chopped
1/2 medium white onion, coarsely chopped
2 medium tomatoes
6 oz. (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. ground turmeric
1/2 cup mild curry powder
1 1/4 lb. boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch cubes
1 1/2 tsp. kosher salt, divided, plus more as needed
1 1/4 lb. large prawns shelled and deveined
2 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. ground cumin
2 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. ground fennel seed
1 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. ground cardamom
1/4 cup honey
1/2 cup plus 2 Tbsp. heavy cream
2/3 cup unsweetened coconut cream
2 tbsp. chopped fresh cilantro leaves, plus more for garnishing
2 tbsp. finely chopped fresh curry leaves
Cooked rice, for serving (optional)',
'In a small food processor or mortar and pestle, add the garlic and ginger and pulse or pound until a 
paste forms. Transfer to a small bowl, then repeat the process with the onion. Transfer the onion paste 
to a separate small bowl. Add the tomatoes to the food processor (no need to clean out the bowl) and 
process well. Strain through a sieve and reserve the juices (discard the pulp). You should have about 
3/4 cup juices.
In a large Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the onion paste 
and cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes. Add 3 tablespoons of the ginger and garlic paste and 
cook, stirring occasionally, 4 minutes (reserve any remaining paste for another use). Stir in the turmeric,
curry powder, chicken, and 3/4 teaspoon salt and let cook 5 minutes. Stir in the prawns and tomato juice
and simmer 4 minutes. Stir in the cumin, ground fennel, and cardamom and cook, stirring occasionally, 5 
minutes. Stir in the heavy cream and coconut cream and bring to a simmer; let cook, uncovered, 5 minutes.
Stir in the honey, cilantro, curry leaves, and remaining 3/4 teaspoon salt. Cover and let cook until the 
prawns are pink and firm, about 3 minutes.
Garnish with cilantro leaves, and serve with a side of rice if desired.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Chicken Tikka Masala', 'Indian', 'Chicken Tikka Masala', 'Saveur',
'https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Chicken-Tikka-Masala',
'1 tbsp. ground turmeric
4 tsp. garam masala
1 tsp. red food coloring (optional)
6 cloves garlic, crushed
1 (2 1/2") piece ginger, peeled and chopped, plus julienned strips for garnish
1 jalapeÒo, stemmed and chopped
1 (28-oz.) can whole peeled tomatoes, undrained
2 lb. boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1 1/2" cubes
1/4 cup Greek yogurt, such as Fage
Kosher salt, to taste
6 tbsp. unsalted butter
1 tsp. coriander seeds
1/2 tsp. cumin seeds
1 tbsp. paprika
2 small yellow onions, finely chopped
1 cup heavy cream
Cilantro leaves, for garnish
Cooked basmati rice, for serving',
'In a blender, purÈe turmeric, 2 tsp. garam masala, coloring, garlic, ginger, jalapeÒos, and 1/2 cup 
water. Put paste into a bowl. In the same blender, purÈe tomatoes and strain through a sieve. In a bowl,
mix 2 tbsp. paste, chicken, yogurt, and salt; marinate for 30 minutes. Place oven rack 4" from heating 
element; heat to broil. Transfer chicken to a foil-lined sheet tray; broil until cooked, 5ñ6 minutes; set aside.
Heat butter in 6-qt. saucepan over medium-high heat. Add coriander and cumin; toast 4ñ6 minutes. Add 
paprika and onions; cook until soft, 6ñ8 minutes. Add remaining paste; brown for 5ñ6 minutes. Add tomatoes;
cook for 2 minutes. Stir in cream and 1 cup water; boil. Reduce heat; simmer until thickened, 6ñ8 minutes.
Stir in remaining masala and chicken; season with salt. Serve with garnishes and rice.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Bakery Style Crusty French Bread', 'Breads', 'French Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/bakery-style-crusty-french-bread/',
'Starter - Pate Fermentee
1 1/8 cups 5 ounces unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/8 cups 5 ounces unbleached bread flour
3/4 teaspoon .19 ounce salt
1/2 teaspoon .055 ounce instant yeast
3/4 cup - 3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 6-7 ounces water, room temperature
Dough
3 cups of pate fermentee above
1 1/4 cups 5 ounces all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups 5 ounces bread flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon instant yeast
3/4 cup to 3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons warm water 90 - 100 degrees
semolina flour or cornmeal for dusting',
'For Starter:
Stir together flours,salt and yeast in medium bowl. Add 3/4 cup water and stir until ingredients come 
together into a coarse ball. Add flour or water a tablespoon at a time only if necessary. Dough should 
be well hydrated but not too sticky or too stiff.
Sprinkle flour on the counter and knead dough for 4-6 minutes. Or knead in mixing bowl on medium speed 
with dough hook for about 4 minutes.
Place dough in a lightly oiled bowl and roll it around to fully coat it. Cover with plastic wrap and let
rest a room temperature for 1 hour or until 1 1/2 times its original size.
Remove from the bowl. Lightly knead it to degas it slightly and place back in the bowl. Cover with 
plastic. Place in refrigerator overnight. Keeps in fridge for up to 3 days or freeze in airtight plastic 
bag for up to 3 months.
For Dough:
Take starter from refrigerator 1 hour before making the dough. Cut into 10 small pieces with a pastry 
scraper or serrated knife. Cover with plastic wrap or a towel and allow to sit at room temperature for 1 hour.
Stir together all purpose flour,bread flour, salt, yeast and starter dough in a medium bowl or using the
bowl of an electric mixer. Add the water and stir until everything comes together. Add water or flour as
needed so you have dough that is not too sticky or stiff.
Knead dough on medium speed using an electric mixer for about 6 minutes. Or place dough on a lightly 
floured counter and knead by hand for about 10 minutes. Dough should be soft and supple but not sticky. 
The dough should be able to be easily stretched and temperature about 77 -81 degrees. Knead for a few 
extra minutes to increase temperature of dough if needed. Lightly oil a large bowl and place dough in 
bowl. Roll around to coat it with oil. Cover with plastic wrap.
Let sit at room temperature for about 2 hours or until doubled in size. If double before the 2 hours, 
knead it lightly to degas it and cover and let it rise again.
Remove the dough gently from the bowl and transfer to a lightly floured counter. Cut into 3 equal pieces.
Being careful to degas the dough as little as possible. (We want to keep the air bubbles in the bread
this creates the beautiful open crumb we adore.)
Form the dough into loaves:
Gather dough into a rough ball. Stretch the outside of dough underneath being careful not to degas the 
dough. Continue stretching dough bringing opposite sides together to make a ball. Let loaves relax for a
few minutes. Lift dough and gently pull, tugging on opposite ends. We want loaves that are about 8-12 
inches in length. Remove they will expand in size and we will need them to fit in our standard size oven.
Crease dough down the center and fold it like a letter. Seal the crease against the counter to create 
surface tension. Working from the center of the loaf to the outsides gently rock dough to lengthen to 
desired size. If dough is springing back quickly. Let rest for a few minutes and try again. Place 
baguettes lightly sprayed parchment that is sprinkled generously with cornmeal.
Let sit at room temperature for 45 to 75 minutes or until loaves are about 1 1/2 times original size. If
you poke with your finger that should slightly spring back
Meanwhile prepare oven. Place an empty heavy duty sheet pan or cast iron frying pan on the bottom of the
oven (Do not use anything glass). Place a cast iron or baking stone on the center rack. Preheat oven to 
500 degrees. Also prepare a water bottle for misting (just a cheap one from the dollar store works fine.)
And simmer a few cups of hot water on the stove for later.
Score the top of the loaves by slashing across the top diagonally several times on each loaf. Use a lame
or a serrated bread knife.
Using a pizza peel or the back of a sheet pan sprinkle very generously with cornmeal or semolina flour. 
(This will allow the loaves to slide easily into the oven.)
Open oven. Lay a towel over oven door glass. Transfer baguettes to baking stone in oven. Pour 1 cup hot 
water into steam pan. Remove towel, close oven door. After 30 seconds,open oven and spray oven walls 
with water and close door. Repeat 2 more times after 30 second intervals. Then lower oven temperature to
450 degrees. Bake for 10 minutes. Rotate loaves if needed and bake until golden brown. Loaves should be 
at least 205 degrees in center. This will take about an additional 10-20 minutes. If they darken too 
quickly turn oven down to 350 degrees and bake for an additional 5 to 10 minutes.
Remove loaves and cool on rack for at least 40 minutes before slicing and serving.
RECIPE NOTES
Plan Ahead: This authentic bread dough takes 2 days to prepare. This method gives you full flavored 
French bread with dough that has been pre-fermented. This allows the dough to have a nice open crumb and 
delicious golden crust. 
The methods described allow you to make it at home yet get it as close as possible to the French bread 
you would find in your favorite bakery.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Rustic Italian Bread', 'Breads', 'Italian Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/rustic-italian-bread/',
'For the sponge:
2 cups bread flour
1 cup warm water
1/4 tsp instant yeast
For the dough:
3-3 1/2 cups bread flour
1 tsp instant yeast
1 1/4 cups warm water
2 tsp salt',
'To make the sponge:
Mix together the flour, water, and yeast together in a medium bowl. Sit until it resembles dough. Cover
with plastic wrap and let sit (dough will rise and fall) at room temperature for 6 to 24 hours.
To make the dough:
Combine 3 cups bread flour and yeast in the bowl of your stand mixer. Using the dough hook, turn the 
mixer on low and slowly add the water while the mixer is running. Let this mix for 2 minutes until the 
dough starts to come together. Lift the head of your stand mixer and place a piece of plastic wrap 
tightly over the bowl. Let the dough rest for 20 minutes.
After the 20 minute rest, remove the plastic wrap. Add the sponge and salt. Knead on medium/low speed for
8 minutes. After 4 minutes, if the dough is sticking to the side of the bowl add the last 1/2 cup of 
flour a little at a time. The dough should slap the sides of the bowl but still stick to the bottom (you
do want it to stick to the bottom). Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and form into a smooth round ball.
Place the dough in a large, lightly oiled bowl, and cover tightly with greased plastic wrap. Let the 
dough rise in a warm spot until doubled, about an hour.
After the dough has doubled, remove the plastic wrap. After the dough has risen for about an hour, itís 
time to start turning it. Slide a plastic bench scraper or rubber spatula under one side of the dough; 
gently lift and fold a third of the dough toward the center.Let rest for 30 minutes.
Repeat the previous step after the 30 minutes are up and then let it rise for a second 30 minutes.
After the second 30 minutes of rising, itís time to form the loaf. Remove the dough from the bowl and 
gently press it into a 10-inch square. Gently dimple it. Fold each corner diagonally into the middle. 
Using your fingertips and starting at the top of the dough, pull the underside of the dough up over the 
top, stretching it considerably, and begin to roll the dough up into a rough log. With each roll, press 
the seam firmly to seal. Continue to do this, forming the dough into a fairly tight log, 5 to 7 more times.
Place the dough, seam down, on a rimless baking sheet (or one that is upside-down) that is lined with 
parchment paper. Gently tuck the dough into place on the parchment. You should end up with a long thin 
loaf that is 16 inches long. Transfer dough to parchment lined inverted baking sheet or parchment lined pizza paddle.
Finish shaping the loaf into a taut 16-inch-long torpedo-shaped loaf by tucking the edges under with your
hands. Lightly mist the dough with oil and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let the dough rise in a warm
place until doubled, 1 to 1 1/2 hours.
While the dough is rising, prep the oven and your baking stone. Preheat the oven to 500 degrees. Let the
baking stone heat for 30 minutes (but not longer than an hour).
When the dough has doubled, score the top with a razor blade, diagonally and 1/2 inch deep and spray 
lightly with water. Carefully slide the loaf and the parchment onto the hot baking stone in the oven. 
Bake for 10 minutes.
After 10 minutes reduce the oven temperature to 400 degrees. Bake for 30 to 35 more minutes until the 
crust is a deep golden brown. Let the loaf cool completely on a wire rack until it is room temperature. 
(about 2 hours cooling time) Serve and enjoy'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Ciabatta Bread', 'Breads', 'Chibatta Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/ciabatta-bread/',
'1 1/2 cups cool water 12 ounces
3 1/2 cups bread flour 14 3/4 ounces
2 teaspoons instant yeast
1 1/2 teaspoons salt',
'Combine water, 2 cups of bread flour and 1 teaspoon of yeast in a medium bowl. Stir until dough comes 
to a shaggy ball. Cover and let sit for several hours or overnight.
Add remaining 1 1/2 cups of bread flour, yeast and salt. Mix until dough comes together. Dough will be 
very sticky and loose. Do not add additional flour. Place in a floured bowl and let rise for one hour. 
Deflate gently. Let rise for another hour. Place on a well floured work surface. Sprinkle top with flour.
Flatten to an 8" x 10" rectangle. Divide in half so that you have 2 - 4"x 10" pieces. Transfer to a sheet
of parchement. Cover with oiled plastic wrap and let rise for 2 hours. Dough will be puffy.
Meanwhile, during rise place baking stone in oven and preheat to 500 degrees. Oven should be preheated 
30 minutes prior to baking. Mist dough lightly with water. Slide dough on parchment into oven onto stone
and reduce temperature to 425 degrees. Bake ciabatta until golden brown (about 22-25 minutes).
Turn off oven. Move ciabatta to oven rack and cool in oven with door open 2" until completely cool.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Whole Wheat Sandwich Bread with Oats', 'Breads', 'Whole Wheat Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/whole-wheat-sandwich-bread-with-oats/',
'For Starter Sponge:
2 cups 11 oz bread flour
1 cup warm water 110 degrees
1/2 teaspoon instant or rapid rise yeast
For Bread
1/4 cup very warm water 105-115 degrees
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
3 1/2 cups 18.48 oz whole wheat flour
2 1/3 cups 12.50 oz bread flour
2 cups 6 oz old fashioned oats
1 Tablespoon salt
2 3/4 cups cool water 75 to 78 degrees
1 1/2 cups of starter sponge above *sponge creates more than this. Only used specified amount.
3 Tablespoons honey
2 Tablespoons molasses
2 Tablespoons canola or vegetable oil
Extra oats for topping',
'For Starter Sponge:
Combine bread flour, water and yeast in a large bowl. Stir with a wooden spin just until mixed through. 
Cover with oiled plastic and allow to set at least 6 hours or up to 24 hours.
For Bread:
In a large bowl combine warm water and yeast. Stir with a fork to blend and allow yeast to dissolve. Set
aside to stand for 3 minutes.
In a medium bowl whisk whole wheat flour, bread flour, oats and salt together. Set aside.
Add the cool water, starter sponge, honey, molasses and oil to the yeast mixture and mix with your 
fingers for 2 minutes. Mixture will be gloppy and feel messy and will be slightly foamy. Add the flour
mixture and stir with your fingers to blend in flour, scraping sides of bowl as needed. Fold dough over
itself until it gathers into a shaggy mess.
Move dough to a slightly floured surface and knead for 7-8 minutes by hand. Or transfer to a mixing bowl
attached with dough hook and knead on low speed (level 2) for about 7-8 minutes. Dough should clear 
sides of bowl but not bottom. Add as little flour as possible. Dough should be soft and moist. If it is 
too wet add a tablespoon of flour at a time. If it is too stiff add cool water 1 tablespoon at a time 
until you have a supple dough.
Cover dough with oiled plastic and let rest for about 20 minutes. You should be able to stretch it 
easily but it will not be transparent because of the oatmeal.
Knead the dough for 2-3 more minutes. Lift up the dough. Lightly oil the bowl and place the dough back 
into the bowl. Turn to coat dough with oil. Cover with oiled plastic and let rise at room temperature 
for about 2 to 2 1/2 hours OR until doubled.
Dough is ready when you make an indention with your finger and it does not spring back.
Remove dough from bowl and place on a lightly floured surface. 
Shape into a log. *See directions below.*
Place extra oats in a shallow dish. Mist or lightly brush tops of loaves with water. Roll tops of loafs 
in oats. Place in greased 9 x 5 inch loaf pans. Cover with oiled plastic. Let rise for about 2 hours OR until doubled.
Thirty minutes before baking preheat oven to 450 degrees. Place cast iron skillet and mini loaf pan or 
other small pan (not glass) on the bottom rack of the oven. Place baking stone (if you have one) two rungs above on oven rack.
Fill plastic spray bottle with water. Prepare several cups of water to be boiled later using a teakettleor saucepan.
Five to 10 minutes before baking turn water to boil. Carefully place two ice cubes in the oven in small 
loaf pan. This creates moisture.
When loaves are ready place pans on the baking stone. If not using just slide onto oven rack. Quickly 
pour water into the skillet and shut the oven door. After 1 minute quickly spray loaves with bread and shut door again.
Reduce oven temperature to 400 after 20 minutes. Rotate loaves for even browning. Bake for another 25-30
minutes until loaves sound slightly hollow when tapped on bottom. Sides and bottom should feel firm. If 
you have a thermometer loaves should read around 210 degrees.
Cool completely on wire rack before cutting.
To freeze: Wrap tightly in aluminum foil and place in freezer bag.
Directions for shaping loaf:
Flatten dough into a rectangle.
Fold top 1/3 towards you.
Fold bottom 1/3 up and away from you overlapping last fold.
Turn dough a quarter turn and repeat. Folding the top edge down and the bottom edge up again. Pat the seam to seal it.
From the top edge fold the dough one third down and seal the seam. Repeat one or two more times until 
the loaf is a nice round log. Seal final seam with heel of your hand.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Easy Buttermilk Drop Biscuits', 'Breads', 'Biscuits', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/easy-buttermilk-drop-biscuits/',
'2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup buttermilk chilled
8 Tablespoons unsalted butter melted and cooled slightly
plus 2 Tablespoons butter melted',
'Heat oven to 475. Used baking sheet lined with parchment.
Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda,sugar and salt in large bowl.
Combine buttermilk and 8 Tablespoons melted butter in a medium bowl. Stir until butter forms small clumps.
Add buttermilk mixture to flour mixture and stir with rubber spatula until just incorporated.
Use a greased 1/4 cup dry measuring cup. Scoop out level amount and drop onto parchment. Leave 1 1/2 
inches between biscuits.
Bake for about 12-14 minutes or until tops are golden brown and crisp.
Brush with remaining butter. Let cool 5 minutes before serving.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Easy Breadsticks', 'Breads', 'Breadsticks', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/easy-bread-sticks/',
'For Dough:
1 1/4 cup warm milk 100 degrees
4 Tablespoons butter softened
1 1/2 Tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons salt
2 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast
1/4 cup warm water
3 1/2 cups all purpose flour approx
For topping:
2 Tablespoons butter softened
1 1/2 teaspoons Italian seasoning crushed
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 cup Parmesan cheese freshly grated',
'Using a stand mixer fitted with dough hook mix the warm milk, butter, sugar and salt in a large mixingbowl. Set aside.
Stir the yeast into the warm water and let it stand for 5 minutes to dissolve.
Add the dissolved yeast and 3 cups flour to the first mixture in the mixing bowl. Dough should pull away
from the sides of the bowl. Add the additional 1/2 cup of flour 2 tablespoons at a time as necessary.
Knead for 6-8 minutes or until smooth and elastic. Place in a greased bowl covered with plastic wrap. 
Let rise until doubled about 1 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Press dough down gently. Turn out onto a half sheet pan (11 x 15 inches) lined with parchment or 
non-stick baking mat. Cut dough into strips with pizza cutter. I cut dough in half width wise and then 
made additional cuts. Each half I cut in half and then in half again. Each of those quarters I cut into 
thirds for a total of 24 bread sticks.
Melt 2 tablespoons of butter. Spread over dough with pastry brush. Sprinkle with crushed Italian 
seasoning, garlic powder and Parmesan cheese. Bake for 16-19 minutes or until lightly browned.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Homemade Pretzel Rolls', 'Breads', 'Pretzel Rolls', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/pretzel-rolls/',
'For Dough
1 3/4 cups warm water
2 tablespoons unsalted butter softened
3/4 teaspoon salt
4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup nonfat dry milk
2 teaspoons instant yeast
Coarse sea salt for sprinkling
For Water Bath
2 quarts of water
1 Tablespoon salt
1/4 cup baking soda',
'Mix the dough ingredients with stand mixer attached with a dough hook. Knead until it becomes a soft 
smooth dough, about 5 minutes.
Grease a large bowl. Place dough in the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap. Allow it to rise until doubled, about 1 hour.
Gently deflate the dough. Place on a lightly greased surface. Divide into 8-12 pieces depending on how 
large you want them. The ones pictured were divided into 12 pieces.Shape each piece into a smooth ball.
Place on a lightly greased or non-stick lined baking sheet. Cover and let rest for 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
In a large pot bring water salt and baking the water bath. Cook for 30 seconds. Flip. Cook 30 seconds 
longer. Remove with slotted spoon to a dry towel for about 1 minute. Move to baking sheet.
Use scissors or sharp knife to cut 1/2" inch slit cross on top of the rolls. Sprinkle with coarse salt.
Bake 8 buns for 20-24 minutes. For 10-12 buns bake for 17-20 minutes. Bake until deep dark brown. 
Transfer to a baking rack to cool.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Farmhouse White Sandwich Bread', 'Breads', 'White Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/farmhouse-white-sandwich-bread/',
'4 cups 1 lb, 4 oz / 566 grams organic all-purpose flour PLUS (SEE BELOW)
1Ω Tablespoons instant yeast
2 Tablespoons granulated or brown sugar
2 Tablespoons melted butter or mild oil
4 cups warm milk about 85∞ F
6 cups 1 lb, 13 oz / 825 grams bread flour all-purpose flour, approximately
1Ω Tablespoons salt',
'In a large bowl combine 4 cups all purpose flour, instant yeast, and sugar. Make a well in the center, 
and add melted butter and warm milk. Add 3-4 cups of flour, adding 1 cup at a time. Stir with wooden 
spoon until you have a sticky, shaggy dough that is mostly combined. Do not worry if it is not smooth. 
Cover with a damp towel and let rest for 20 minutes.
Uncover the dough and add the salt and 1 cup of bread flour. Add an additional cup if it is too sticky 
to begin kneading. Turn out onto a floured surface and knead with floured hands for 8-10 minutes. Adding
small amounts of flour if necessary.to work surface. You want the dough to be soft slightly tacky but not
sticky. You may not need all the flour. Just use according to the feel and texture of the dough.
Using a very large bowl sprinkle in flour add dough and sprinkle the top with flour. Cover and let rise 
until it has doubled. Preferably a warm place that is around 70 degrees. If the temperature is cooler it 
will take longer to rise.
After the dough has doubled dump out onto a floured surface. Flatten gently to remove air bubbles. Divide
into 3 equal pieces and shape into loaves. Place seam side down in greased loaf pans. Dust loaves with flour.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Cover the loaves with the damp towel and let rise for about 40-60 minutes. 
Gently poke with a floured finger, the dough should spring back a little.
Bake for 35-40 minutes. Loaves should be golden brown. The best way to check is with a thermometer. 
Internal temperature of loaves should read about 200 degrees. Let cool completely before slicing with a bread knife.
RECIPE NOTES:
This makes 3 loaves of bread. It uses approximately 10 cups of flour all together.
To make 1 loaf try to use the following measurements
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 Tablespoon yeast
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons butter or oil
1 1/3 cups warm milk
2 cups bread flour (may need more, use accordingly)
1/2 Tablespoon salt'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Easy Perfect Yeast Bread', 'Breads', 'Yeast Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://gatherforbread.com/easy-perfect-yeast-bread/',
'1 tablespoon active dry yeast
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon salt
2 cups warm water not over 110∞F
5 1/2 to 6 cups All-Purpose Flour
cornmeal or flour for dusting
boiling water',
'In a large bowl mix together the yeast, sugar, salt and water. Let this stand until the yeast is
dissolved. Gradually add the flour, one cup at a time to the liquid and mix thoroughly until the dough 
pulls away from the sides of the bowl. Turn the dough out onto a floured surface to knead. (This may be 
a little messy, but do not give up!)
Knead It: Fold the far edge of the dough back over on itself towards you. Press into the dough with the 
heels of your hands and push away. After each push, rotate the dough 90∞. Repeat this process in a 
rhythmic, rocking motion for 5 minutes, sprinkling only enough flour on your kneading surface to prevent sticking. Let the dough rest while you scrape out and grease the mixing bowl. Knead the dough again for 2 to 3 minutes.
Let It Rise: Return the dough to the bowl and turn it over once to grease the top. Cover with a damp 
towel and keep warm until the dough doubles in bulk, about 1 to 2 hours.
Shape it: Punch down the dough with your fist and briefly knead out any air bubbles. Cut the dough in 
half and shape into two Italian- or French-style loaves. Place the loaves on a cookie sheet generously 
sprinkled with cornmeal. Let the loaves rest for 5 minutes.
Bake it:
Lightly slash the tops of the loaves 3 or more times diagonally and brush them with cold water.
Place a roasting pan on the bottom of the oven. Fill 1" deep with boiling water. Slide loaves onto baking
stone in a cold oven. I use this one. Bake at 400∞F for 35 to 45 minutes, until the loaves are golden 
brown and sounds hollow when tapped.
Alternate method:
For a lighter, crustier bread, let your shaped loaves rise for 45 minutes. Preheat the oven and roasting
pan with water to 500∞F for 15 minutes. Brush the loaves with cold water, place in the oven and bake for
10 minutes. Lower the temperature to 400∞F and bake for 10 more minutes. Remove from the oven and place 
on a cooling rack. Let cool for at least 30 minutes before slicing.'
);

insert into recipes (recipe_title, recipe_country, recipe_description, recipe_source, recipe_link,
recipe_ingredients, recipe_instructions)
values ('Greek New Years Bread (Vasilopita)', 'Breads', 'Greek Bread', 'Gather for Bread',
'https://www.saveur.com/vasilopita-greek-new-year-bread-recipe',
'1 1/2 cups whole milk, warmed to 115∞
1 cup sugar
2 tbsp. active dry yeast
2 sticks unsalted butter, melted, plus more for greasing
3 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
1 tsp. finely ground 1 tsp. ground cinnamon
1 tsp. ground cloves, plus more for sprinkling
1 tsp. kosher salt',
'In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook, combine the milk with the sugar and yeast and let stand
until foamy, about 10 minutes. Pour in the melted butter and 2 eggs and whisk to combine. Add the flour,
mastiha, cinnamon, cloves, and salt and knead on medium speed until a smooth dough forms, about 8 minutes.
Cover the bowl with a kitchen towel and let stand until doubled in size, about 1 hour.
Heat the oven to 350∞. Grease a 9-inch diameter, 3-inch-deep cake pan with butter. Wrap a coin in foil
and place at the bottom of the pan. Scrape the dough into the pan and brush the top with the remaining 
egg. Sprinkle the top with more ground cloves, then bake until golden and cooked through, about 45 minutes.
Transfer the pan to a rack and let the bread cool completely before serving.'
);
